Jones, Edward R: there's the parking lot is still full 11 o'clock at night I.
Jordan Gross: will say the one on the apple campus.
Jordan Gross: A little bit better than again I did come in right when a pandemic was getting underway, so I don't know if that affected the parking situation i'm going to assume it had some kind of impact live right across.
Jordan Gross: And it's.
Jones, Edward R: The underlying.
Jordan Gross: message different work ethic i'm told.
Jones, Edward R: yeah the underlying.
Jordan Gross: Live is very different from.
Jordan Gross: The Austin by by people who have worked between the two.
Jones, Edward R: Okay yeah the people there in cupertino the word was so if you go to work for apple you're gonna have to work a lot hours.
Jordan Gross: May I certainly do that but I never feel burnt out so hopefully I figured it out some kind of balance.
Jones, Edward R: Okay well let's go ahead and get started and i'm on my little little micro computer right here little really thing yeah.
Jones, Edward R: where's the camera.
Jones, Edward R: you're using the camera on my only thing here.
Jones, Edward R: let's actually pretty cool i'm glad I got a mask on.
David Purkiss: yeah we're seeing both angles.
Jones, Edward R: Dr Jones okay oh mask helps keep you from going getting yeah i'm not very photogenic so okay and tonight, before I came here, I was shaving in the shower and cut myself.
Jones, Edward R: In the lip, no, no less so i'm glad to get the mask on whatever here, Jim is here Karen is here you glad to see you here, Jordan, of courses out of Boston good to see him here, so all right let's go ahead and get started.
Jones, Edward R: If you would go to eat campus.
Jones, Edward R: So i'm going to going to.
Jones, Edward R: Open up the campus here and see what I can do about it, so if we go to eat campus you're going to see a bunch of stuff I had been i've been having a lot of fun preparing for this this particular lecture and you're going to see why here in just a minute.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, send me a foolish man, yes, yes, yes.
Jones, Edward R: It says, I don't care, but has an Internet connection.
Jones, Edward R: Now there it is it's.
Jones, Edward R: Asked code.
Jones, Edward R: cancel enter Code and the code is.
Jones, Edward R: They want to be so careful about me logging in.
Jones, Edward R: I have, I have dangerous access to personal information Okay, so this is what our e campus site looks like tonight and tonight we are on week four, but I wanted to mention that, if you go to week three.
And if you look at the week.
Karen Fireman: it's Karen I can't see your screen i'm sorry and also do you have this slides uploaded because I couldn't find the neither.
Jones, Edward R: Well i'll show you i'll show you just.
Karen Fireman: can't see your screen.
I can.
Jones, Edward R: Nobody can see my screen.
Karen Fireman: I don't know I can't.
Jones, Edward R: No, no, no, I can share the screen.
Jones, Edward R: You won't know sure.
David Purkiss: We cannot see it, we cannot see it.
Karen Fireman: We see you, but no screen.
Karen Fireman: Okay well you're good to see.
Jones, Edward R: You would rather see the screen I know.
David Purkiss: I know yeah we have.
David Purkiss: We have a little too much of seeing you right now.
Jones, Edward R: that's what i'm thinking too much okay hang on where is the little thing that says share.
Jones, Edward R: I don't see the thing that says share, you have to go back to your zoom I have to, I have to go to St yeah, of course, and then the little green oh there we go share mm hmm and I guess that's don't know.
Jones, Edward R: i'm just going to share this stuff I guess share.
Jones, Edward R: Oh okay good i'm gone my pictures coming great okay so.
Jones, Edward R: let's see if we can get get to your questions here about the word is everything okay here in week number three if you go to the week three assignment.
Jones, Edward R: You should see at the very bottom is the solution code that i'm.
Jones, Edward R: populating here for week three and we'll talk about that here, in just a minute.
Jones, Edward R: Then, if you go to week four.
Jones, Edward R: right here you'll see but it's hidden no wonder, make available, please Okay, there you go, so the week for lecture notes are now in visible, they are now visible and the week for folder.
Jones, Edward R: And in addition to the lecture notes that we have here, these are quite large, by the way, and you'll see why.
Jones, Edward R: In addition to the lecture notes, we have the files that are going to be used during this likes to lectures tonight.
Jones, Edward R: And then there's another one called week for assignment and it's at the bottom, let me show you give you a preview of what the week for Simon about this is, if you open this up.
Jones, Edward R: This is you, in this case, you do not get a template you get a picture of an APP and then you're asked to build the code for that particular APP.
Jones, Edward R: Now what this APP does is you type in something here in English you select a language like Chinese or German and then you click on the button that says speak.
Jones, Edward R: And it translates it and displays the translation in the text box and at the computer talks to you and speaks and pronounces translation to you in Chinese.
Jones, Edward R: Is that cool Okay, I think it's way cool tonight we're talking about audio speaking, how to take audio recordings of somebody's talking and turn it into text.
Jones, Edward R: And, of course, if that text is in Chinese we know how to translate right.
Jones, Edward R: Then you will also learn how to take text and turn it into a recording.
Jones, Edward R: So that's the trick in this case, we first translate in Chinese and then the computer is going to take that trance Chinese translation and speak Chinese.
Jones, Edward R: it'll basically say the equivalent of Hello Howard you speak English, you know in Chinese and and i've checked this with languages that I know I do not know Chinese.
Jones, Edward R: Spanish, German and it's very, very good and you have already learned a lot of the tricks when you use the API to do the translation you learned a lot about credentials, for example.
Jones, Edward R: And that technique that you use to validate the software you'll use that tonight when we look at translating speech recorded speech to text and vice versa.
Jones, Edward R: The technology here is is amazing to me because I studied this and looked at this some years ago decades ago, and this was like impossible to do.
Jones, Edward R: But decades to go, but now they have some tricks and they're actually using neural networks they're using new neural networks that are pre trained.
Jones, Edward R: To do the translations and also to analyze voice communications and turn those miscommunications into readable information so that's what we're that's what we're up to tonight, let me go back to the week for folder and i'm going to open up the the lecture notes here.
Jones, Edward R: And it's coming down and all right.
Jones, Edward R: and
Karen Fireman: i'm sorry where did you say the answers for the homework are I know you said server administration, sir.
Jones, Edward R: Well, the answer to the homework is going to be in the in the presentation.
Karen Fireman: Oh okay.
Jones, Edward R: The code for the homework is in the week three assignment folder three Okay, thank you yeah.
Jones, Edward R: i'm which basically sounds right so Okay, this is now something else that you that you probably should just go ahead and do.
Jones, Edward R: And let's get started with that and what i'm talking about is anaconda and spider So if you would in addition to downloading the presentation and cranking it up start up anaconda for me.
Jones, Edward R: And the reason for the you know how this thing takes a while right.
Jones, Edward R: and eventually we're going to be what we're going to be doing in the lecture tonight is we'll be doing a lot of try this try that will you're going to look at some code and you're going to try the code on your computer make sure, everything is running and that sort of thing.
Jones, Edward R: So.
David Purkiss: I got.
Jones, Edward R: David yes.
David Purkiss: Yes, I was wondering if you're going to go over the the homework for week three and whether or not you had a file for us.
Jones, Edward R: Even if you just come in.
David Purkiss: No.
Karen Fireman: No he's right, I only see week two under the week three folder I use right.
Jones, Edward R: there's the, the answer is the answer, oh baby there you go to.
David Purkiss: Malaysia for just a quick minute, but I might.
Jones, Edward R: As well do that man, and I was trying to say the Code, the code solution for the week three assignment is in the week three assignment folder.
Jones, Edward R: and its designated hw translate P, why okay.
David Purkiss: Sorry now.
Jones, Edward R: The presentation that we're going to be looking at here has the solution also in it.
Jones, Edward R: So you're going to see to version two different discussions of it here tonight Okay, so if you get to anaconda open I just got it open here.
Jones, Edward R: change from the base environment change to the environment that you're using for translate in on this computer the end by using the term Google for that environment you notice i've got one there for 656 and for drone that'll be coming up pretty soon.
Jones, Edward R: But tonight we're talking about how to talk to the computer, how does siri really work is it any good.
Jones, Edward R: And I know many of us here tonight, if you had a conversation if you had a recorded conversation.
Jones, Edward R: of somebody doing something.
Jones, Edward R: And let's say that conversation was in Chinese Okay, you should be able to use your computer to decipher what's being said and to translate it into English and produce an English translation of that pretty quickly.
Jones, Edward R: Of course, if you've got a lot of noise in there yeah that's that's if you have a decent recording right so maybe a telephone call or something like that maybe it would work them okay.
Jones, Edward R: let's see no remind me later I don't need to be okay so i'm now in my my thing there and then i'm going to open up spider.
Jones, Edward R: So i've got my the environment selected here, this is the environment that you have been using for translate and I hit launch and so spider is going to come up, we will be installing some small packages tonight and that's why that's why I kind of wanted you to get this going.
Jones, Edward R: You already should have the cloud translate installed and you probably have the Google ot a T h.
Jones, Edward R: Instead, running and so i'm going to.
Jones, Edward R: make this a little bit larger well.
Jones, Edward R: That was totally public noise windows okay there we go make the code, a little bit larger, you should have the Google au Th.
Jones, Edward R: already running on in your environment and you're going to put we're probably going to install two new.
Jones, Edward R: Google cloud packages tonight, or one that translates speech to text and then another one that takes text and turns it into speech.
Jones, Edward R: And then another one, I think you probably have it as good as Google cloud storage, I think you have that but we'll see.
Jones, Edward R: But that's getting the head of things let's go back to the presentation here and i'm going to sort of minimize anaconda here and minimize this please download our tools message I hate that Google apple is trying to sell me something again.
Jones, Edward R: So let's go to slide show and i'm going to start with the started the front right.
Jones, Edward R: Start okay further we go to frank frank right right right.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, now I need to minimize see I only have one screen here, are you guys able Okay, so it looks like you're okay with this right Okay, so far, so good so we're on February, the night yay.
Jones, Edward R: In about a month, by the way, March, the second is coming up.
Jones, Edward R: March, the second turns out to be Texas Independence Day and the governor has decided that everybody gets off on Texas on Texas Independence Day, which means no class on March, the second Tuesday.
Jones, Edward R: So you're going to go, I have like a two week period where we're not going to be talking well we'll be talking on homework and things like that or Q amp a but.
Jones, Edward R: Otherwise, not okay so here's the here's where we're doing tonight, this has got it we got a we got a full presentation here for different five different parts.
Jones, Edward R: Number one we're going to talk about the solution to week three number two we're going to talk about creating your own cloud credentials okay i'm sorry.
Jones, Edward R: i'm sorry I turn this loose on you and many of you were able to handle it you got your credentials and it's working.
Jones, Edward R: But, but we have a few that we have quite a few actually that it's not working for them, and so what I did was I put together a step by step by step.
Jones, Edward R: description of what you need to do in order to set up your credentials and other things so by now, I hope you have wiggled your way around the cloud Google cloud, and all of that business.
Jones, Edward R: tonight will be taking a closer look at that, so I can describe for you the other parts, you know you walked in you use the translation part of the cloud.
Jones, Edward R: Man there's like 300 or over 300 different api's in the Google cloud and a lot of them are kind of interesting we're going to be looking at two new ones tonight.
Jones, Edward R: One, will you look at the first one we're going to look at Part Three out of take text and convert it into speech, how to get your computer to talk.
Jones, Edward R: And, and we and, by the way this is language independent I mean obviously people have done some of this for English for some time, but we can take let's say a Chinese text and and get the computer to produce a recording of that text.
Jones, Edward R: As well as English and Spanish and other languages part four we're going to do the inverse take a recording and turn it into text.
Jones, Edward R: And of course the translation of going from one language to another language, we know how to do that, and so this is very cool we can take a recording that's in one language.
Jones, Edward R: We can translate it into English and then we can have the computer read that the English translation, or you can take a English text.
Jones, Edward R: turn it into Spanish and then have the computer read that if you want to Okay, and in fact your homework for this week is like that.
Jones, Edward R: So that's number four and the last thing is the assignment that you've already seen there something online and week number four for the that describes what the assignment is.
Jones, Edward R: The description is pretty simple pretty easy and after tonight I hope it's fairly easy to see how to do that okay so first of all, the week three assignment, which is about translation translate translation APP So this is the the the template that you were given.
Jones, Edward R: And you see here that it basically we're going to take text files of Spanish Chinese or German and then we're going to translate them into other other languages so.
Jones, Edward R: These buttons don't all work the website button is not working, the audio button well after some mind you'll be able to program that one.
Jones, Edward R: But it right now it's not working so in the template there is a text file button you click on it and then you'll be able to browse to a text file.
Jones, Edward R: Open that text file and then it will translate it automatically to whatever language is clicked on the right hand side.
Jones, Edward R: And then you'll be able to take that translation and save it by clicking on the far right hand button, so what you needed to do in this assignment is to add four different languages trap, the Japanese Korean Farsi I think it is and one other.
Jones, Edward R: and get that basically extend the list of languages here by about four, and this, by the way, is a list that's being built here by.
Jones, Edward R: Radio buttons.
Jones, Edward R: What I can't hear what you're saying.
Karen Fireman: i'm sorry.
Jones, Edward R: Will you talking to us.
Karen Fireman: Now i'm sorry.
Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, something about the gym or something I don't know alright.
Jones, Edward R: So, in order to for this assignment really all you need to do is add four languages to this list, and then get the SAVE button to work, I think this that's all you need to do everything else is working here if you type something in the upper.
Jones, Edward R: line and you hit translate then you'll get a translation Okay, so the first step, of course, is to download this and open it up and spider.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: There we go and yeah I just tested it here, using the asking it translate a simple phrase like, how do you speak at this hello, do you speak English and they translate and then also I tried to just open up this other file it's a Chinese file 359 characters and see you see how that worked.
Jones, Edward R: So what do you need to do what I did was I extended the the the gooey by adding the textbook on box on the bottom and so you'll see there's a.
Jones, Edward R: maroon colored text box that's been placed down here, and the reason I did that was that if you hit translate you do see the translation show up in your eye window.
Jones, Edward R: But I thought, well, it would be cool if it also showed up here on your screen, so I added this text box and now the translation will show up in both on your in your I.
Jones, Edward R: console and also on there you're going the bottom part of this, that you see right here and here's the code that's doing this, so.
Karen Fireman: first chance, can I see.
Jones, Edward R: What Karen.
Karen Fireman: it's Karen i'm not sure I see the file we're supposed to download here.
Karen Fireman: pull into.
Jones, Edward R: What are you talking about the the week three homework file.
Karen Fireman: know the one that you're talking about now aren't we supposed to for filing.
Jones, Edward R: In week four folder the very first file.
Jones, Edward R: Is the prison is this PowerPoint file.
Karen Fireman: Okay, but we're not supposed to download a file for.
Karen Fireman: This okay.
Jones, Edward R: The the file the code that you're seeing is the week three solution.
Karen Fireman: Oh OK that's it was.
Jones, Edward R: Like Oh, if you wanted, if you.
Jones, Edward R: wanted them you don't need to download it, but if you wanted to download it.
Jones, Edward R: for free.
Karen Fireman: yeah Thank you i'm sorry.
Jones, Edward R: No problem.
Jones, Edward R: So this is this is showing you how the add those for new languages and Japanese Korean Vietnamese and in Latin.
Jones, Edward R: Always firstly okay Japanese Korean Vietnamese and Latin I think of for noon languages and so basically all you need to do around line number 900 and 191 is the line number here.
Jones, Edward R: Is you need to add for new check buttons and you're there already like 10 of them so you're adding check button 1112 1314.
Jones, Edward R: The you also needed to extend the language description in there's a list of languages and then also the the coding for those languages che for Japanese scale for Korean and so forth, and so on, so these needed to be expanded and then you needed to add those little check buttons.
Jones, Edward R: And then you also needed to add a little function when they're checked when they're clicked on you want to go to this language 11 1213 and 14.
Jones, Edward R: and the first thing you do is clear, all the buttons and then you set that particular button like 13 in this case and then your target is equal to.
Jones, Edward R: The.
Jones, Edward R: Whatever was selected so for example here language 11 the target is going to be Japanese right so.
Jones, Edward R: that's what that last line isn't that function and then of course the the the function that clears all the buttons here LNG clear.
Jones, Edward R: You want to add those four new languages to the bottom of it, so all we're doing here is adding for new radio buttons are click buttons and then we add for the functions and everything that are associated with those new buttons.
Jones, Edward R: The other thing that have to do in this assignment, in addition to adding the So if you run it right now, if you have to add those those make those changes and run it, you will see the four new buttons show up will be here on the right hand side.
Jones, Edward R: Now, once you get this far, then you also need to activate the SAVE button and while we're doing here is saving the translation.
Jones, Edward R: To a text file and there is a function for that about created here and what's what I handled it.
Jones, Edward R: Number one what you have to do make sure of is the the button for save and then this is the button for save you have command is equal to the name of the function that's met that performs this so right now it's called save translation.
Jones, Edward R: And you can see what i'm doing here I create a new gui.
Jones, Edward R: And then, what happens is you, you make the source file he set up the dialogue that basically it's going to ask the user, where do you want to put this file.
Jones, Edward R: And what name, do you want to give to it and that's, this is the code that is used to basically go through that dialogue it's called anti kenter it's called a file dialog ask save as file name.
Jones, Edward R: that's the function that's being used here, and this function is very, very handy because anytime you want somebody to give you a name for a file and then save it.
Jones, Edward R: This is the file dialog that I think most people would turn to there are other ways to do this, but this seems to be pretty bulletproof and so, then you you basically get the name from them using the the file dialog method and tea counter and then you destroy that window.
Jones, Edward R: To get rid of it, and then you basically open the source file create for writing you're opening a new file for writing.
Jones, Edward R: And then you write the translation and the translation is stored in a object called self dot translation that's just a long string.
Jones, Edward R: This is a text file, so what you're writing as a very long string that includes things like punctuation and you know paragraph terminators and things like that, and then you print out onto the console.
Jones, Edward R: The file save so they know then okay we're done, you were able to save the translation to a file and you close the file so that's all there is to basically asking the person to.
Jones, Edward R: give you a file name and then saving that by writing that file out so this particular function would be very useful in many, many.
Jones, Edward R: Apps you might, for example, if you wanted to save a recording a speech recording now, this is a text file text file is a big string.
Jones, Edward R: Tonight we're going to be looking at speech files recordings and those are going to be binary yeah they're not.
Jones, Edward R: You can't open them up and look at them and see if you did I mean you can open them up and look at them what you're going to see a bunch of numbers.
Jones, Edward R: Which is representing the the audio the speech that is in that file so that file.
Jones, Edward R: Would we would be binary and so you would if you're going to write that file, instead of just saying w here, you would say w be bravo for binary.
Jones, Edward R: And so, this particular method that we're looking at can be used not just to write text files, but you're right other types of documents and files.
Jones, Edward R: That would be let's say in a particular file format, and for that we would use binary web if you're going to read that in a file and instead of saying our you'd say rb for read binary.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so so then here's an example where.
Jones, Edward R: Basically, if you say hello, do you speak English and hit translate, and this is click this German that you get the German translation for that particular sentence and yeah good is this a sit down yes.
Gupta, Satyam: If you could go back to the.
Gupta, Satyam: Previous slide I had a question on the code, which was ever that file dialog.
Jones, Edward R: This one right here, yes.
Gupta, Satyam: Can you explain it.
Gupta, Satyam: Really quickly like what are these.
Gupta, Satyam: Other other line of code doing like di quantify when dot left and when dot focus.
Jones, Edward R: yeah yeah this is.
Gupta, Satyam: A little mystery for me.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: Well, you know what the first even know what the first line is doing right yep.
Jones, Edward R: it's basically just creating a teak a canvas.
Gupta, Satyam: canvas yes.
Jones, Edward R: yeah yeah.
Jones, Edward R: The others.
Jones, Edward R: I would have to look up the Code, the the.
Jones, Edward R: definition of what they're doing I do know the quantify this has to do with somebody clicking on the little red button.
Jones, Edward R: If you click on a little red button the screen disappears right or the APP the disappears, I do know that.
Jones, Edward R: And I know that the the form of focus for us is basically forcing this window to the front of your screen, so that you take notice of it right.
Jones, Edward R: But the geometry, obviously the geometry one is talking about how big to make this and but I don't fully understand how these things are all working together, I mean that's that's The big question, and so on occasion I saw some behavior that didn't look right.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: This is still a work in progress, all I can say is right now it's working.
Gupta, Satyam: yeah I mean yeah I mean some of it, I understand some of it not so that's why I was but.
Jones, Edward R: yeah yeah well part of the part of the problem here, and this is a general problem for Python is you have packages that are not release you don't know they're not really supported who owns this package.
Jones, Edward R: Does apple on this package does this Google know this is one of those freak three things and on in Python.
Jones, Edward R: Well, somebody probably originated well, they have been rejected, but are they working who's working on it today, so they come up with a new version of Python and then somebody has to go back into this package and retool it.
Jones, Edward R: who's going to do that, I mean you know so.
Jones, Edward R: I I ran i've run into some trouble packages, they were highly read it people talk about how good the packages and then you find out that was a year ago and today it and work.
Jones, Edward R: Because, because that was version eight of Python and now we're 8.4 something like that so.
Jones, Edward R: This is a continuing issue with a language like Python where you have met many much bb much of it is not really being maintained, except for the grace good graces of some volunteers.
Jones, Edward R: Now there are parts of it that's, for example, the cyphy side library, that seems to be you know commercial.
Jones, Edward R: I mean it's free, but they do get it, they do get a lot of money from advertising and things like that you know people using their package so Okay, so I know where you're coming from with that question, I have some of those questions myself.
David Purkiss: Dr Jones I have another question, too, about the homework oh yes.
Jones, Edward R: David yeah.
David Purkiss: So.
David Purkiss: This is saving whatever translate right, whether you translate from the entry a short text or if you translate from a text file correct.
Jones, Edward R: That is correct.
David Purkiss: And so.
David Purkiss: Where is it where is it holding.
David Purkiss: That data and how is that command retrieving the content of the translation.
Jones, Edward R: I don't see that okay look it both of both of we would have to go back into the code, but what you're going to see in them when you hit the translate button on the top.
Jones, Edward R: It calls a certain function, and it does the translation.
Jones, Edward R: And it stores, the translation in an.
Jones, Edward R: object called translation self that translation.
Jones, Edward R: Now, the same thing happens down here when you click on text file and it opens that file and reads it and does the translation it stores, the translation in the same object.
Jones, Edward R: And since this thinking yeah.
Jones, Edward R: And since but here's the here's the cool thing is this is David, this is really what because you got two different functions in two different places in your code, how does this happen.
Jones, Edward R: they're sharing an object and that's why you have the self period translation everything with the self period in front of it is, it is a object or a variable that is seen and knowledgeable to all of the other functions within that class.
Jones, Edward R: Now, in your regular part of your code, if you were to call translation or sell it would say what know that variable is not global it's not accessible to everyone except the code that's in the class the gooey.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: So yeah.
David Purkiss: Take a look you very much yep.
Jones, Edward R: yeah take a look at those two things you'll see with them i'm sure you will.
Jones, Edward R: make sense.
yeah.
Jones, Edward R: that's a good question, but you know that's how it's done okay so.
Jones, Edward R: How about this little box at the bottom, how was that done well it's done here is just showing yourself that T is equal to a text you just that's how you create the text box.
Jones, Edward R: And then you like many things you give it a background color morone the foreground coders white so all the translation that shows up in there is going to be white anything that goes over the sentence is going to wrap word ramp you can there's a there's a fault here for aerial something.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: Also, then I do a ti dot grid and giving it the location of this text box, as I wanted in the first column, I want to cover it both columns on the on the mainframe.
Jones, Edward R: frame and i'm going to just put it in wrote 10 so one of the issue, one of the gotchas here, by the way, for some reason, and I forget which student they might have been gupta not sure.
Jones, Edward R: But it turns out that in most of these widgets these tk widgets you can, at the end of this description of where you want the widget to go.
Jones, Edward R: You can go dot grid, and then the dot and then the grid function defines where this is going to be placed well if you do that, in the in the text widget it doesn't work.
Jones, Edward R: And so, for the text widget and other widgets that are not tk the grid call needs to be a separate call and placed underneath right underneath the.
Jones, Edward R: The place where you actually defined that widget, so this is a tk widget not a TT K widget the buttons and everything we're tck, but this is a tk because there is no text box.
Jones, Edward R: And the TT K tinker world in the Tiki a list of widgets there so anyway that's just that's something that really threw me off, unless i'm going on how many hours, I spent trying to figure out what.
Jones, Edward R: And this is, and this is one of those things, by the way, where.
Jones, Edward R: It one time it worked back in Python two day and Python three day no I didn't work and, by the way, there's no documentation on this.
Jones, Edward R: No where did I find that in documentation or anybody saying hey don't don't put the grid that as part of the the text box self have it as a separate statement but that's the trick and getting this text box to work.
Gupta, Satyam: me Dr Jones if that is correct.
Jones, Edward R: What what is not correct.
Gupta, Satyam: I mean, I think I have tried dod grid like on both tk tk.
Gupta, Satyam: Yes, and they've worked it's just that you run into an issue if you are trying to retrieve anything from that widget which has dod grid you.
Jones, Edward R: I could not we'll go back and look at this, but I could not get it to even show on the screen.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so there was it was way beyond that it was like where is it in the air, I never showed up until I made them separate like.
This.
Jones, Edward R: i'm sure, there must be some documentation that says if you're going to use a tk widget not a tck you need to do this, but it wasn't obvious from the documentation, I saw anyway.
Jones, Edward R: If you want to delete and then insert the translations of.
Jones, Edward R: This first statement delete delete from character one to the end of the of the text box, everything is there, it clears it out.
Jones, Edward R: clears out whatever is currently in the text box and then the second, the second statement dot insert basically take starts in character, place number one and runs all the way till the end of the translation.
Jones, Edward R: So very simple very really simple elegant way to put stuff into the box and to erase it is very easy.
Jones, Edward R: This is this upper part right here's the tricky part it's not too tricky once you see it but trying to figure all that out, I had problems.
So.
Jones, Edward R: Thank you for helping and I think it was one of this.
Jones, Edward R: position on here tonight.
Jones, Edward R: Oh, my yeah that's it.
Jones, Edward R: applies here, are you doing blind.
Jones, Edward R: You okay all right he's quite.
Zuberi, Bilal Mustafa: doing well, Dr Jones.
Okay.
Jones, Edward R: He knows what i'm going to say so, he just taken their courting alright so that's the text box and then.
Jones, Edward R: If you this is this is actually showing the.
Jones, Edward R: Whole cold of the language translate so at the end of the language translate code now, this is the code that translates the.
Jones, Edward R: Whatever is written in that top line you hit translate button and boom all you have to do is insert this at the bottom of that code and basically it says okay right the self translate thing into that little maroon box at the bottom.
Jones, Edward R: And that's it that's that was homework number three and the code is in the week three assignment folder okay.
Jones, Edward R: If you have any questions on that, let me know we'll have a q&a as usual tomorrow night, and you can bring those up tomorrow and i'd be fine.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, now, I have a bunch of stuff on credentials, how do you register in the cloud and how you find yourself around the cloud right.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, now, you may already have your credentials credentials and they're working still I think you're going to find some useful information here about what else is in there, anyway.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so what you do I, in order to get these slides I had to create a new email.
Jones, Edward R: A gmail email right and so actually I had a spare gmail email it's called.
Jones, Edward R: The it's called eat Jones no no yeah he Jones yeah he Jones at tm you stats services dot G gmail.
Jones, Edward R: No, no, no, no.
Jones, Edward R: These the team email is tam stats services that gmail.com so there's sort of generic sort of thing, and so I basically logged into this new gmail email for me.
Jones, Edward R: And that allows me to them to show you what happens if you want to create your credentials from scratch what you would do is get a new email.
Jones, Edward R: And log into that and I advise you to get a Google email address talking gmail here.
Jones, Edward R: And it didn't matter what that addresses, but you got a new address so they'll look at you, as a new customer Otherwise, what happens is.
Jones, Edward R: Oh, we know who you are we got your credit card they won't even let it until you they they they won't they don't want you to do this okay so act like you don't know them and do that by creating the new gmail okay next.
Jones, Edward R: You hit that little thing that says you're welcome welcome to our cloud, and then you type in gmail address right here there it is tam staff services at gmail COM.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, that was a business thing so that's how the business, and so this should pop up unless you already logged into an account that they know.
Jones, Edward R: That you've already been to the cloud and which which case they will show you this, but the first time you do this with a new gmail address and email, this is what they're going to show you.
Jones, Edward R: Then they'll say why hey welcome welcome.
Jones, Edward R: Add your home address please and confirm your recovery email or phone number that's friendly enough, so I did that.
Jones, Edward R: go through, and you give their home address, and you, you give them another email and I gave them the email that they know and they didn't and they didn't didn't get excited about that Okay, so I gave him the other email that I use for my other cloud thing, and that was okay done click.
Jones, Edward R: And then, they say, well, you have to agree to our service, nobody ever reads this really so anyway, you have to click agree and then click continue.
Jones, Edward R: And notice on the right hand side they're doing their marketing $300 credit for free.
Jones, Edward R: yeah, this is a, this is a capitalist country and then Google is the title to make some money and that's what they're trying to do here, so this is step one of two.
Jones, Edward R: And notice it says is switch account Z you're getting ready to go into the deep hole so last chance last chance.
Jones, Edward R: keep going click continue all right now here's what you need to do, and some of you may not recognize this this default the account type deeds faults to business they sure hope your business because that's who they make money from they make money from advertising with business people.
Jones, Edward R: that's what this is all about now tell them i'm an individual.
Jones, Edward R: And you know they're going to be disappointed about that, but anyway, you must change this from business to individual if you don't do that.
Jones, Edward R: you're going to get all kinds of marketing stuff between here and where you want to go and tell us about your company and how many people work there, and how much money do you make and.
Jones, Edward R: taka taka it's all about selling you something else, and then, of course, you put your name and your address all it's just Allah de I don't live at 999 my street address.
Jones, Edward R: My real address here.
Jones, Edward R: But OK, and then, of course, if you scroll on down a little bit payment method we don't want you to go far without telling us how you're going to pay for this okay.
Jones, Edward R: If you're just somebody off the street some teenager hacking around we're not gonna let you in so they want a valid credit or debit card or debit card or PayPal and.
Jones, Edward R: All things the how about a bank account.
Jones, Edward R: No, not doing that it's easy to tear up a credit card it's difficult to get rid of the Bank.
Jones, Edward R: So don't check that now if you're a business, you might have you might have to want to go there, but as an individual now just use a credit card that you can destroy.
Jones, Edward R: And then you crypt on start my free trial really it's not free okay it's only free if you don't make your choose of it and we're not, by the way, so, although everybody's been using my credentials, which has been showing up on my credit card it's like $2.
Jones, Edward R: So this is really designed for the big business users loop guys, who are going to put code in an APP and then sell the APP right.
Jones, Edward R: And then they're going to send it out they're going to sell thousands of copies and every time somebody uses that APP and being so critical.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, not maybe only a penny, but if you got thousands of them eventually led up to real money.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so this is the dashboard once you get this far you get into what's called the cloud dashboard you must have seen this if you tried to do your credentials.
Jones, Edward R: I hope you got this far, this is critical to everything that happens now.
Jones, Edward R: From this dashboard you can get anywhere within the cloud So if you ever get confused about what where Am I click up here, you see, where it says, Google cloud platform this guy up here click on it.
Jones, Edward R: And it takes you back to the dashboard now the dashboard lets you navigate around and for example billing right here that little if you're worried about your credit card click on billing.
Jones, Edward R: And you can remove your card, you can you know take it out of their clothes or billing down or if you closed it down by the way, then they're not they're going to close down your account basically your your credentials are not going to work until you activate the billing.
Jones, Edward R: The api's and services, there are over 300 api's and services that are available in Google.
Jones, Edward R: we're only looking at the best ones.
Jones, Edward R: But I think the best and you can, if you want to know what they are about if you want to get one of them and use it on your desk in your API click here.
Jones, Edward R: Now, if you need support, which by the way, it's not free, you can click here.
Jones, Edward R: Well, they have a huge library of fyi faqs and things like that click support and it'll give you a whole bunch of information, and in particular about things like billing How does this really work, but the billing is very confusing.
Jones, Edward R: honestly about the only way you figured out how it really works is to run it for a while and see what happens.
Jones, Edward R: that's because each API each API has a different billing strategy yeah we're anyway it's another intuitively obvious how everything's happening.
Jones, Edward R: I am I am and administrator, this is a useful click as well, because this is going to take you to a lot of sort of management information on your cloud account your API account.
Jones, Edward R: And okay so here, you can see, go to the checklist to make sure you've got everything the end billing there mainly the billing that everything has been approved and so forth, and so on, and probably that's just fine.
Jones, Edward R: Now.
Jones, Edward R: next thing I would do is I would go to a right here, it says this is amon still on the dashboard okay.
Jones, Edward R: Their own little boxes on the dashboard and notice that the upper left hand box this project information, and right now there's no information in here at all.
Jones, Edward R: Because I haven't entered anything So the first thing you want to do is give it a project name, and so you click here, it says go to project settings.
And I just go.
Karen Fireman: Jones can I skip questions Karen.
Jones, Edward R: Sure care.
Karen Fireman: If we're on the dashboard and we don't see that we don't see that project.
Karen Fireman: box, what do we do to get to it.
Jones, Edward R: um well, let me, let me go back and see what your questions are at here.
Karen Fireman: let's see.
Karen Fireman: We have to be an I am to see it.
uh.
Jones, Edward R: I believe, if you just click home.
Karen Fireman: Okay we're in home.
Jones, Edward R: But and dashboard.
Karen Fireman: No, but it doesn't show up it's just empty there Oh, it says, create project, so you got to do that okay.
Jones, Edward R: The yeah.
Jones, Edward R: that's what i'm talking about right here, right here.
Jones, Edward R: see it says go to project study well.
Karen Fireman: it's not there, but it's elsewhere, it is on the.
Jones, Edward R: yeah This is very confusing to me I don't know you know because it's, not that I don't know anyway.
Jones, Edward R: We.
Karen Fireman: At the organization that's something that messed me up, I thought you told us to put tammy and when I put 10 Oh, is it really doesn't like it.
Jones, Edward R: Oh no I don't you know why.
Jones, Edward R: No, this you use the template EDU.
Karen Fireman: Apparently it's what it put on there yeah.
Jones, Edward R: Well, the problem with that is.
Jones, Edward R: taboo is an organization, it is a business and they got an account and you're not the owner.
Karen Fireman: Right and So what do I do to fix it either.
Jones, Edward R: campaigns have to make the.
Jones, Edward R: don't say you're a business so you're an individual.
Karen Fireman: But do I have to throw this account away just because I did that I can't change.
Jones, Edward R: A actually I would yeah if you've set it up, if you set it up under your EDU email address I would get another address that's restart.
Karen Fireman: Because trying to restart it goes back into the Google effects grabbed from the the way it always grabs our email, and it goes right in and knows me from there, it doesn't.
Jones, Edward R: make you login you have to log into the other email account before you open this up.
Oh.
Jones, Edward R: So.
there's usually a lower.
Jones, Edward R: right hand corner, it says login you click on it.
Jones, Edward R: And you can log out log out of the EDU account and then log into a generic gmail account.
Karen Fireman: Oh.
Jones, Edward R: Okay yeah.
Jones, Edward R: Well, this is a saying in the by the same thing hey the same thing happened to me.
Jones, Edward R: I tried my best to get this to align with the tam Bu EDU email, and then I and everything seems to be working I was going down I got the King setup and looking good looking good and then I get to the part on the credentials and it says.
Jones, Edward R: you're not getting anything.
Jones, Edward R: Because you're not the owner of the of this domain, which is true.
Jones, Edward R: Somebody on campus is the owner of it is the owner of that domain and they don't you know they don't want.
Jones, Edward R: citizen faculty charging stuff.
Jones, Edward R: Out there.
Karen Fireman: We put nothing, what do we put as the organization.
Jones, Edward R: what's that.
Karen Fireman: What do we put that as the organization.
Jones, Edward R: Individual nothing, nothing.
Jones, Edward R: Oh, so let me go back, let me back up here before about one or two slides.
Jones, Edward R: When you are still signing up originally right here, where it says account type, this is step, two have to.
Jones, Edward R: write sure this says individual.
Karen Fireman: Okay, well, I made that mistake, obviously I.
Jones, Edward R: doubt if you say this doesn't do it.
Jones, Edward R: Well, the only way to do it is to start over with a new email.
Karen Fireman: gotcha now okay.
Karen Fireman: yeah start over by it kept going to the other email I didn't know.
Jones, Edward R: I had to be in the other one yeah hey listen hours, I spent hours trying to figure this out.
Karen Fireman: Get that because I tried it a few times.
Jones, Edward R: yeah yeah if you do not change this, the individual that wants to know the organization.
Jones, Edward R: And they wants to know billing and who's in and wants you to be the owner and be indiana.
Jones, Edward R: So we have to, we have to do this as an individual private person and so just set up a bogus gmail address it's actually not bogus and you may you have you been to look at it and use it and you need another gmail address it's not related to the EDU.
Jones, Edward R: address.
Karen Fireman: Okay, so as long as.
Jones, Edward R: Part of the part of the confusion here is that TIM you EDU is.
Karen Fireman: A Google address.
Karen Fireman: Right okay like that.
Jones, Edward R: And we do get access to like Google drive and so other things that we've been using sort of routinely, but when you branch out and say, I want to use your API well, which are the where they're making money then oh nope sorry.
Jones, Edward R: You don't want it.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, I get it so.
Jones, Edward R: All right, so maybe someday this will change, but for now we need to set up the account type as individual and the they won't ask you very much for an organization don't just say just leave it Blank or just say none is what I did.
Karen Fireman: Okay, thank you.
Jones, Edward R: Okay yeah yeah well that's why i'm going through this.
Jones, Edward R: Because you're not alone I it happened to me and i'm sure you know, so that now you you finally get to this little areas, this project info my first project, which means you don't have one.
Jones, Edward R: And then you have a project number and an ID that's assigned automatically by Google and you can't change it.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, this is the number this number is linked to your credit card basically that's how they know who you are now you click on the bottom, one which says go to project settings.
Jones, Edward R: And when you do that, you see this page and you are allowed know to create a project name, something that you can relate to, and you can have several projects and your account for me I just called it is tm 601 but you might call it Karen or something.
Karen Fireman: I will I project.
Jones, Edward R: My project or your husband's name or something like that, and once you type in whatever you want to call this and you click on save over on the right hand side and that then then when you see that little box next time you see it your project name will be in a box.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: that's it Thank you re Max there you go see is tm six oh honest my project name.
Jones, Edward R: Okay next step next step.
Jones, Edward R: Go to API is there's another box for the api's go to the api's overview now if you don't see that box on your dashboard if you look on the left hand side there's a thing it says ap guys there's a there is a.
Jones, Edward R: Sometimes there's a navigation sort of bar right over on the left and one of the elements in that bars api's you can click on that or you can click on go to the API server view you'll go to the same place, and the same and that place is.
Jones, Edward R: That are this.
Jones, Edward R: notice at the top, it says api's and services, and it shows you all of the api's that are automatically linked to your account.
Jones, Edward R: The only one here that really is pretty obvious is are needed is the one that says cloud storage and, basically, this is the API that lets you save stuff on the cloud and up to a certain point that's free.
Jones, Edward R: small point actually.
Jones, Edward R: For us it's it's more than sufficient.
Jones, Edward R: And then on the left hand side, you can see that i'm now in the dashboard for the ap is next step, you see, where it says library and credentials eventually we're going to get your credentials, but let's not go there just laying just yet first click on library okay.
Jones, Edward R: And when this comes up oh isn't that Nice isn't that Nice notice over here, it says public api's 316.
Jones, Edward R: Public api's are on the cloud well that's very exciting because I haven't seen all that many of them, and there must be some other ones in there, that I want to see.
Jones, Edward R: But the there are quite a few having to do with speech text vision that's what we're talking about in this class first part of the class anyway good thing is, you can search, you can search on api's so I suggest that you start by searching on text to speech.
Jones, Edward R: So just type in the search box here text to speech.
Jones, Edward R: or speech to text whichever one and you're going to get something like this and it's here the api's and say something about text to speech.
Jones, Edward R: One of them, the first one cloud text to speech API we're talking about this tonight, this is a, for I think this is the first one we're going to go over.
Jones, Edward R: The second one we're going to go over is the next one, which is speech to text API okay now in order to use these api's they need to be linked to your account so that's why we're here.
Jones, Edward R: we're here to link these api's to our account so click on one of them it doesn't matter which one I clicked on here text to speech.
Jones, Edward R: And then, it comes up oh text to speech notice the big blue bar but says enable you click on that and, basically, you are saying, I want to use this API I want you to enable it for my account.
Jones, Edward R: By the way, at the bottom there's there's some move of gobbledygook information about pricing.
Jones, Edward R: And I think I know what it's doing, but every this pricing business down here at the bottom.
Jones, Edward R: is always a little different depending upon the API and a lot of those is, if you read the details on pricing it's a terminology driven the goodness is it's very low pricing is very low for.
Jones, Edward R: doing the kind of things that we're doing well, as I say, if you build an API and you sell thousands of copies, and you have thousands of customers doing this.
Jones, Edward R: You see it's using a fraction of a penny every so many Bytes and eventually that adds up to some money and Google is going to you know bill your credit card automatically for that money.
Jones, Edward R: I mean the good news is for us it's like $2 with the whole class I think it's $2 or something like that so not to worry so enable this click enable.
Jones, Edward R: Good things happen, but things happen when you enable it.
Jones, Edward R: Oh, it says oh wait a minute billing is required in order to use whoa this we charge money for this, I know I know I saw the money it's not much okay.
Jones, Edward R: But they want you to double check and say, yes, enable billing if you do not enable billing they will not link the API to your account, so this is required.
Jones, Edward R: don't be too, I would say i'm always concerned and suspicious when I see this sort of thing that sounds kind of heavy handed but.
Jones, Edward R: If you don't if you're just doing this for educational purposes and then development purposes and you use relatively small files in your processing, which we are.
Jones, Edward R: Then the building that's going to be really minor or zero they give you a certain amount of free usage and for us that covers pretty much the whole thing.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, all of us so enable building and when that happens, then notice what happens over here if you now the you know it says oh oh you wait, it says, create on the right hand side here, it says, create what does it say I can't see it on my screen create.
Jones, Edward R: Oh click to download credentials.
Jones, Edward R: see that upper right hand button.
Jones, Edward R: Where i'm you see where i'm pointing right, let me see what I got up here, right here or appear upper right hand corner so there's The thing is just click to download.
Jones, Edward R: credentials, you see that, yes, or is it, this is how you get your credentials, the first API that you register and you enable billing they give you credentials.
Jones, Edward R: Those credentials are not going to change, by the way they are used with all of the api's the same credentials will work with all the other api's that you add.
Jones, Edward R: But as you add the api's you will not see that button, you only see it on the first time right, so the first API you order you you you access and you authorize.
Jones, Edward R: Be sure you click credentials and it will create credentials rather and then it'll download them then to your download file.
Jones, Edward R: And look for them find them and put them in some area that you know where that's at, and you can protect them, by the way, you can change the name that file name is ugly.
Jones, Edward R: And you can change that to something like Google credentials, so that you know what that file is it's a Jason J so in file make sure that it is in seven where the you know and make sure that.
Jones, Edward R: You know you protected, because if somebody gets that then they can use your credentials to use the API which means whatever they do you get billed for.
Jones, Edward R: Until you until you kill it, by the way, you can disconnect you can tell them to kill the API or kill the credentials.
Jones, Edward R: it's very, very easy if you go to the credentials, if you click over here on the left, it says credentials it'll go to the credentials window which lets you.
Jones, Edward R: Take care of that you can delete the credentials and then reauthorized or get new ones, so I will watch the billing thing going on, make sure there's nothing really crazy.
Jones, Edward R: going on and but if there was something crazy going on, I would basically delete those credentials and reauthorize him or create new ones.
Jones, Edward R: But never had any problems with this okay.
Karen Fireman: One question Sir do.
Karen Fireman: It yeah just to tell them which APP we're using so we just click on this cloud text to speech APP.
Jones, Edward R: It doesn't matter.
Jones, Edward R: You do you have to we're only going to click on Apps that we're going to use.
Karen Fireman: Well, they asked are we planning to use this APP with APP engine or compute engine.
Jones, Edward R: Yes, no, no, no, no, no, oh yeah Oh, I think you said that the that the next one.
Karen Fireman: Well, it came up from mine.
Jones, Edward R: yeah there's some little thing that says, you are you going to use this for compute engine click no.
Karen Fireman: No i'm not using them.
Jones, Edward R: No, we have no with no intention to be doing that.
Karen Fireman: APP engine or compute engine okay.
Jones, Edward R: That is correct click no.
Jones, Edward R: Okay yeah.
Jones, Edward R: Forget it.
Karen Fireman: Now it's.
Jones, Edward R: Now here, this is.
Karen Fireman: He sending.
Jones, Edward R: It says add credentials to your project so when you say create credentials, this is what comes up and then you select the APP you're adding it for speech to text or text to speech and then click no right here that's what you're asking about Karen.
Jones, Edward R: yeah it says, am I, using the blah blah blah blah I don't even know what those things are doing so.
Jones, Edward R: Right at this point, no we're not doing that, so what credentials Do I need to continue on down this, this is a long, long page, by the way, so you go down below and it says add credentials to your projects and then you want the.
Jones, Edward R: select.
Jones, Edward R: select your role and put your name your service account name in here.
Karen Fireman: What are the What are those what's our role and what their service account name.
Jones, Edward R: Well, let me show you.
Jones, Edward R: The ID just put in your name I put an e Jones right and then that service account name is attached to your account ID.
Jones, Edward R: And then you select the role and the role here should be owner that's like the highest level.
Jones, Edward R: The highest level okay as an individual you're only the owner okay now if you had a team of people working and they were all using the same credentials, then you somebody would be the owner and that owner is allowed to modify the credentials or hurt or destroy them.
Jones, Edward R: But, but the.
Jones, Edward R: But then others, you could have the role of viewer or editor change them or browsing you know so billing and so forth, and so on, so you're you're a role here is going to be owner owner.
Jones, Edward R: project.
Jones, Edward R: rice, but it says select a role.
Jones, Edward R: and go to projects, yes ma'am project owner first thing.
Jones, Edward R: Now the rest of this i'm not even sure what it is.
Jones, Edward R: Key type Jason.
Jones, Edward R: don't change it, and then click continue.
Jones, Edward R: right here.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: All right now.
Jones, Edward R: Add credentials to the project so as you can see, then, before you click continue here double check make sure your initials or your name is right here, your role is owner and that file type or the credentials type is Jason.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: And let's see and at this point, I think.
Jones, Edward R: it's it basically my computer says hey this Google wants to download something should I allow you click allow.
Jones, Edward R: And then, it comes down to your download folder and about two seconds one second.
Karen Fireman: Well, mine mine mine went somewhere, but I don't know where.
Jones, Edward R: Oh well, read Taiwan.
Jones, Edward R: Where was it on my computer whenever I do this it comes down to my downloads folder.
Jones, Edward R: Okay well.
Jones, Edward R: Before yeah.
Jones, Edward R: But now what happens on your computer.
Jones, Edward R: search and then she says it says oh there's your folder and then there's your traditional name.
Karen Fireman: yeah I saw that but it flew by me, but then I didn't know where it went.
yeah.
Jones, Edward R: You can search on that name and the heavy computer search from that name.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, all Jason files.
Jones, Edward R: But you will I change that name as quickly as I can, because that's just an ugly name.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: When you click on credentials, if you do this and you click on credentials you'll see at the bottom, it says service accounts, right here and that's it's basically saying this person, this is the credentials down here so.
Jones, Edward R: Now here's the here's one for cloud the translation API you want to do you want to link that one into your account to.
Jones, Edward R: Now, this should have already been done in the homework number three cloud translation API should have been enabled if you got your credentials, then this, we would have enabled we would have gone through this process.
Jones, Edward R: And I know some several students would do where did that and then there's a third one, we want to make sure that gets enabled, which is the text speech.
Jones, Edward R: text to speech speech to text and text to speech you want to enable both of those and you want to enable the translate API.
Jones, Edward R: Now there is a fourth one which is storage, but that is done automatically.
Jones, Edward R: that's enabled automatically.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Now, if you click to I am.
Jones, Edward R: If you will Peter the still.
Jones, Edward R: Three little horizontal lines and you click on I am I am.
Jones, Edward R: right here, I am, this is what happens when you click on these little lines at the top, you get this this link navigation link on the left, you can go to API is, which was where we were just going and now we're going to go to I am an administration.
Jones, Edward R: i'm not sure what I am stands for, but.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, if you go to I am I am in administration bunch of stuff is sitting here settings roles, most of this is pretty boring stuff that have to do with the management of your project now for an individual or just a small number of people working on a project you most of this is boring.
Jones, Edward R: The one thing that's not too boring but could be his quote us this guy right down here at the bottom, the bottom left left it says quotas, if you click on that.
Jones, Edward R: which I did here then you'll see this page that's basically showing you all of the api's that are linked to your account.
Jones, Edward R: Including the ones that are automatically now here, the first two or the cloud translation.
Jones, Edward R: API the rest of them big query API Okay, there are so proud of their search engine, the big query API is attached automatically everybody's everybody's account.
Jones, Edward R: Now the crowd crowd cloud translation right up here if you see green checks everywhere, this is a good thing.
Jones, Edward R: The Green check says here that every every API has a quota now.
Jones, Edward R: I don't know why they say quota because, basically, what it is, is a limit and upper limit on how much you can do with that API.
Jones, Edward R: And by the way, there's it's basically a default limit right and.
Jones, Edward R: For example, in the Korean translation API if you're going to translate a local file.
Jones, Edward R: or a local string that you type in it cannot be more than 2000 characters long if it's more than 2000 characters you're going to get a little error message from Google, it says something about too big.
Jones, Edward R: you're exceeding your quota, this is where the term quota comes from.
Jones, Edward R: So if you want the details on what floaters do I have on translate go here click on all quotas and it will show you oh here's the there's a quote on the side of the field.
Jones, Edward R: The size of the file, there is a limit on how many characters in there, there is a limit on how many times, you can access this API and i'm on okay.
Jones, Edward R: And the reason they're doing this is because.
Jones, Edward R: Well, first of all, if you're making a big use of something that's one of these things they want to know about, so they can charge you that they're they're looking at their charges and everything, however, it wouldn't be possible, as you can see, to write a program a robot.
Jones, Edward R: That fake this and then showered the API with overloaded, the API to make bring down the whole cloud okay.
Jones, Edward R: The service called service attack where they they just use so much I bet boom boom boom boom boom eventually the computer is going to croak and slow down.
Jones, Edward R: and possibly crash and things like that, so they have an upper limit on how much you can get away with and that's for every API you have a quota.
Jones, Edward R: What they're actually multiple folders that have to do with the size of the file how often you access the API it permitted.
Jones, Edward R: And how often you exercise per month, so the good thing, of course, is to prevent hackers from messing up thanks okay.
Jones, Edward R: Well, at least, Buddhists, are fairly generous for our purposes, so you probably won't know i'll talk a little bit about some of the limits on translation and speech to text and so forth, that that we can run into and and what happens when that when that occurs so that's it.
Jones, Edward R: that's it for credentials, I hope you learn something from that and if you already got your credentials congratulations, so if you don't please get them.
Jones, Edward R: to guide to get them and even even if you already have them go out and explore the dashboard and see.
Jones, Edward R: See make sure you've got those three ap is well actually for translating the storage, you should already have but add to that text to speech.
Jones, Edward R: And speech to text no big deal let's take a 10 minute break here get something to drink and then we're going to come back and we're going to talk about how do I convert text to speech, this is so exciting.
Karen Fireman: And question Jones on.
Jones, Edward R: Just when I want to click on.
Jones, Edward R: yeah so that's where we are now right now Okay, yes.
Karen Fireman: Dr Jones quick question it's Karen.
Karen Fireman: Just to go back to check my credentials i'm not the credentials, but to enable these other packages that he said translate which thing do I go back to right now.
Jones, Edward R: Well, let me back up here, you want to go to your dashboard right.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, and.
Jones, Edward R: right here, if you if you click on these bars on the top.
Karen Fireman: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: And you see where it says api's and services.
Jones, Edward R: yeah click there.
Jones, Edward R: Okay it'll show you when you click there, it will show you what api's are already enabled and you have that search window, where you can type like text to speech or speech to text in that search window and it'll boom it'll bring up the API that you're looking for.
Karen Fireman: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Thank you look good luck.
Karen Fireman: Thanks.
Jones, Edward R: Have a good Sunday drink yes.
Jones, Edward R: Go get something to drink okay.
Jones, Edward R: What am I doing yeah.
Karen Fireman: Dr Jones That was really great I got it I got them all enabled Thank you so much for your help.
Jones, Edward R: Okay let's let's see if we get back on course here.
Jones, Edward R: So it's 730 let's see how far we can get here in the next hour so.
Jones, Edward R: Alright, so we're going to talk about first we're going to talk about text to speech and then we'll talk about doing the reverse, and it turns out that the api's are very different and there's some good reasons for that.
Jones, Edward R: let's talk about this one, I think it's a little bit easier it's less complicated the text to speech one so i'm going to go for this one first.
Jones, Edward R: it's important that you register the text to speech API with your credentials otherwise when you go to use the text.
Jones, Edward R: To speech API your credentials may not may be rejected right, so we want to go to our dashboard we want to click on go to API overview and then, if you look at your desk word, you should see a list of credentials down here.
Jones, Edward R: That this described that are enabled and that would include text to speech.
Jones, Edward R: And if it's not there, you can go to your library, you can search on text to speech, and then you can of course bring it up.
Jones, Edward R: And you can click on this text to speech now there's a URL up here, if you want to go directly to it bypass your your dashboard.
Jones, Edward R: You can go to this URL Google club.com slash test text to speech and what you have here is a description of what this API can do for you, and in particular there's a link here, you see it says documentation that's the current documentation.
Jones, Edward R: And then, it talks about how it's being used right now and it says a boy spots in contact centers now did you ever call you of course you've called up the Bank and it says Okay, do you want to speak Spanish or English, this is a computer right.
Jones, Edward R: Okay press one if you want to talk about billing press two if you want to talk about this or that you know that's all being done by this API or something similar to it.
Jones, Edward R: This API will generate the voice that you're hearing on those phone calls and when you respond and say, yes, no or i'm usually.
Jones, Edward R: yellow something like that you don't have to computer, then they they decode the conversation they decode what you're saying and take a just things accordingly, so if you click on documentation here.
Jones, Edward R: It will take you to.
Jones, Edward R: A little form here, it says text to speech basics, I would encourage you to take a look at that, by the way, the first thing they're going to talk about is building.
Jones, Edward R: Of course, do you have a credit card, if you have a levy, I know that kind of stuff and so you love that you can just skip down until you get down to the actual coding part.
Jones, Edward R: There is another one over here says quick starts.
Jones, Edward R: And how to get how to guides these have actual code examples that you might find useful.
Jones, Edward R: But tonight i'm going to tell you, everything you need to know about this thing so don't get to him don't have to feel too bad about that.
Jones, Edward R: There are many applications, the text to speech incoming text can be almost any language so this API allows you to specify the language for the incoming text.
Jones, Edward R: Is a Spanish is an English is a French and so forth, and so on, now it's not complete, it has I don't know how many languages, many, many more than I could ever had understand.
Jones, Edward R: But there are some that are obviously missing well you'll notice, for example, Farsi or person is not in the list of.
Jones, Edward R: them that language list, and so you can translate text into part of Farsi, but this is a different thing, this is a different animal we're translating texts here into spoken language into an audio recording we're producing an audio recording from a text file.
Jones, Edward R: The text has some language in it and then based upon the computer API knowledge of that language, it can then convert that text into a recording and audio recording.
Jones, Edward R: Now we can combine the translation, the translation API with the text to speech API and we can again get very creative.
Jones, Edward R: We might have text, for example, that's in Chinese so we can use the translate feature, to take the Chinese text and produced English.
Jones, Edward R: And then we can use the text to speech to produce an audio recording of that text.
Jones, Edward R: Now why would you want to do this well, if you want to provide voice instruction instead of written instructions for some particular thing this is way you would do it.
Jones, Edward R: If you're if you're programming a ton of US vehicles and really most of what we're talking about here is that's where it's really going.
Jones, Edward R: In the next 10 to 20 years you're going to see an explosion of business related to self driving vehicles.
Jones, Edward R: And that's going to involve communications that's going to involve verbal communication, so you already see that with siri and alexa and they have several devices, you can talk to you in your home.
Jones, Edward R: I don't have one I wouldn't never what I have one side, just to old school anyway siri I disconnect I just don't like get arguing with a computer.
Jones, Edward R: But that's what those are all about is that they are trying to build they are building ways in which people can communicate with computers boy music and audio instead of text or typing.
Jones, Edward R: So we can in self driving vehicles you're not going to be typing you're going to be talking to the car.
Jones, Edward R: And the car is going to be talking to you they've already already do it right turn right and 100 feet your turn right on high wi fi.
Jones, Edward R: that's that's all voice generated stopped by a computer and with the API that we're talking about here, we can actually make that happen.
Jones, Edward R: We could build a navigation API that talk to you and the details you oh in 100 feet you're going to need to turn right and then you're going to go another hundred feet in turn left, right and we're going to make that happen and we're going to put that in any language you want.
Jones, Edward R: Chinese Japanese you know, English, what have you.
Jones, Edward R: So we're going to produce voice instructions and navigation systems in cars.
Jones, Edward R: The cars may also have other instructions like pull over at the next gas station, I need more or less tricity in this case.
Jones, Edward R: And if they're critical for time real time instructions like navigation, as I mentioned to text to speech is a very important tool in a lot of commercial enterprises that we're going to be seeing more and more.
Jones, Edward R: 10 years ago we wouldn't even be talking about this, because it wasn't possible to do this, the computers were not strong enough, they were not fast enough.
Jones, Edward R: And that and, frankly, the technology, which is the what we're us doing here is called deep learning technology, where they teach the computer how to speak the language or how to.
Jones, Edward R: How to process change text into the audit process spoken words and things like that that's deep learning.
Jones, Edward R: they're using neural networks for that and we'll see we'll look at this later on in the course.
Jones, Edward R: So text to speech, there are actually three different animals here three different animals, animal number one is local text files, I want to take a local file.
Jones, Edward R: and turn that into speech okay that requires file to be small, less than one megabyte 1.5 megabytes.
Jones, Edward R: So if you want to transfer, if you want to convert a local file into speech that the the outgoing file needs to be less than 1.5 megabytes I believe and the.
Jones, Edward R: text file, I think, is restricted to 5000 characters or something you have to look it up, so there are restrictions here, there were say that these local text files cannot be enormous why.
Jones, Edward R: Because Google wants you to use the a synchronous larger text file mode, which is number two and this mode requires those files to be in the cloud.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so you have to upload them into the cloud and it's not hard to do that will show we'll be talking about how to get those files in the cloud it's not hard to do that, but.
Jones, Edward R: Here, using Google storage and Oh, by the way, there's a small fee for that now for what we're doing is it gets like pennies but.
Jones, Edward R: You can see how this might work on if you have, but this application running and autonomous vehicle and you've just sold like 50,000 of these vehicles.
Jones, Edward R: And everybody is doing this navigation stuff and they're going up to the cloud yeah that's gonna be a lot of the kind of be a lot of files so and a lot of money to Google, the last thing the last category of okay we're going to translate is real.
Jones, Edward R: Time streaming so the program is listening to you talk of sorry the PLO the program sees you type.
Jones, Edward R: And produces the video and audio stream coming out of that a texture an audio stream coming out of that.
Jones, Edward R: Almost as fast as you can type.
Jones, Edward R: Okay that's a pipe dream right now it's not that fast Okay, but five years 10 years, and now I guarantee it's going to be.
Jones, Edward R: they're going to talk right and that's fantastic, can you imagine, no more typing maybe we can just maybe we can just talk to the computer and it'll automatically do things right.
Karis Jochen: Dr Jones do you mind if I ask a question.
Jones, Edward R: Oh charisse welcome I didn't see the first part okay what's up.
Karis Jochen: hi Dr Jones So my question is from a business application.
Karis Jochen: perspective or a bunch of companies and businesses just paying Google using Google cloud pop platform and paying.
Karis Jochen: Google the these fees to use their api's for their various Apps and websites like is this just a thing that is basically i'm asking is is Google running the universe, and we don't even know it.
Jones, Edward R: Oh, I don't know but yeah I mean I think that's pretty obvious right so.
Jones, Edward R: Google Google has access to a lot but yes, this is all I think this is part of their their corporate strategy is to get people to use these APIs embed them and some of the upcoming technology like autonomous vehicles navigation systems.
Jones, Edward R: alexa you know all of these different applications were the sort of thing they are embedding this software in those applications and then Google gets a small fraction of that and a fraction of a small fraction of a whole lot of stuff is a lot of money so.
Jones, Edward R: I think.
Jones, Edward R: we're doing it.
Karis Jochen: apple using first year first year first theory, for example, are they using google's API as well, or do they have their.
Jones, Edward R: own I suspect they have their own but I don't know they're not friendly.
With one.
Jones, Edward R: Another when I when I hear the news, and I don't know what i'm hearing, but what I hear in the news is that they're there they look at each other as competitors, especially in this area.
Jones, Edward R: There was a new news out just the last few days, talking about.
Jones, Edward R: The iPhone 15 or 13 yes 13 I think it is.
Jones, Edward R: And they were saying that the iPhone 13 is going to be a problem for Facebook, because they don't.
Jones, Edward R: And Google, because they removed.
Jones, Edward R: The ability to actually access those Apps which is not but i'm not happy about, because I use the Google APP whole time but at any rate don't worry we'll worry about it later.
Jones, Edward R: I think there's an issue here, I don't know how this is all going to work out a government wise, but at some point something's going to come to a head part of the problem here is, this is not a US corporation anymore it's an international Corporation.
Jones, Edward R: That, in fact, they are right, so if the United States is like what they're doing well, I just go set up shop in Jamaica or wherever they want to go to.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so politics that's enough all right week for text to speech just continue ahead alright, the first thing you need to do is you need to install some stuff.
Jones, Edward R: So kinda install does not work on this, but the good news is the pip works, just like a champ so i'd like you to go and open up spider right now, if you could, and if you haven't already done this do it.
Jones, Edward R: The first thing to do is install text to speech, and you can see the the code here pip install Google dash cloud that's not a period that's a dash Google dash cloud dex dash.
Jones, Edward R: text to speech all one word which is pretty ugly text to speech is one word is like really I thought we should have put a period in there, or something it is looks ugly but somebody in Google decided that was okay.
Jones, Edward R: So that's how you install the text to speech API in spider in anaconda now after you do the pip install.
Jones, Edward R: You want to restart your kernel now I hope you know how to do that in spider in spider you, you can go up to I think it's console and you can say.
Jones, Edward R: restart the kernel and basically it's a harmless thing and basically restarts Python and so when you install something like this, you do need to restart Python.
Jones, Edward R: For that, so that spider and anaconda recognize that it's there it now is in the list of Apps that are loaded on your computer and, if you want to verify that you can type in conduct list kinda list, and you will see that it says in that list Google cloud text to speech.
Jones, Edward R: Now, once installed, you can use the import statements that you see here important Google dot out a u Th and that's used before with translate.
Jones, Edward R: that's the package in Google cloud that we use to authenticate that we are a register user so that's the part that gets us to our credentials and it gets Google to recognize our credentials and then then recognize us as a authorized user somebody that can build.
Jones, Edward R: And from Google cloud import text to speech that is critical, because that's what we're going to be using here in just a minute.
Jones, Edward R: And now, if you go into week number four, there is a folder called lecture files and in lecture files you're going to find a Python program open this up.
Jones, Edward R: download it from the week for lecture files folder this file is called local dash text dash to dash speech that P, why.
Jones, Edward R: And you want to download this and put this into your the area that you have your other Python programs running and open this up with spider.
Jones, Edward R: Because now we're going to talk about this program what is it doing this is the basic program that's going to talk about how do you take text and make it into speech in the using this API.
Jones, Edward R: All right, i'm going to move move ahead, assuming that this has been done and you're or you're in the process of doing it.
Karen Fireman: If you don't see that file.
Karen Fireman: one set of text to speech play which one is in text to speech, respect text to speech sport and play.
Local.
Jones, Edward R: text, it should say local touch to speech.
Karen Fireman: It doesn't say local there's text to speech P, why there's text to speech play poi and speech to text P, why.
Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Let me take a look at that.
Jones, Edward R: It so i'm gonna i'm gonna back out of this just for a second.
Jones, Edward R: it's a man, I hope I didn't make a mistake on the upload part, but I could have let me check.
Karen Fireman: Maybe on this.
Jones, Edward R: None of this happens with me.
Jones, Edward R: I have this was a so i'm going here to the week for lecture files area and now i'm looking I don't see the local part.
Jones, Edward R: So I see text to speech and said, let me take a look at the first one here and and tell you whether or not I can tell you them, whether or not this is the local.
Jones, Edward R: Keep yes, sir.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: open.
Jones, Edward R: Make it bigger, so I could read it.
Jones, Edward R: Now this is not it.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, I need, I think i'm going to need to upload to the Syria, let me just take a detour real quick and i'm going to go to upload build content file.
Jones, Edward R: And the file here will be I hope it's I have it well, let me browse my computer make sure I have it.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: Yes, I have it, thank God okay.
Jones, Edward R: Karen, thank you for that question.
Karen Fireman: Thank you, Sir, I really appreciate.
Jones, Edward R: You.
Jones, Edward R: I was getting ready to go go off and do you oh yeah it's not even there okay.
Jones, Edward R: Local dash text.
Jones, Edward R: To speech.
Jones, Edward R: But the why.
Jones, Edward R: And I should be able, just to upload this now.
Jones, Edward R: And you'll be should be able to as well where's the submit button oh it's over over behind all these pictures this beautiful people okay there we go.
Jones, Edward R: it's there Okay, so, if you look at the bottom where yeah that's okay.
Karen Fireman: there's a local one now Okay, let me.
Jones, Edward R: yeah so you should see if you go to the week for folder lecture files, you should see a file now.
Karen Fireman: Yes, yes.
Jones, Edward R: local settings of speech Okay, thank you.
Jones, Edward R: Because yeah that would be bad a bad if i'm here I am talking about this fall and you don't have it so let's see.
Jones, Edward R: Hopefully that's the only glitch here Okay, so please open up that file and, if you would go to the top of the file.
Jones, Edward R: And i'm going to restart the slideshow So you can see, this a little better.
Jones, Edward R: There we go okay good.
Jones, Edward R: Alright, so um slide number 53 in case you're wondering.
Jones, Edward R: slide number 53 alright, so this is the text to speech, and I would like to point out there only to import statements here, and these are the two that I mentioned earlier.
Jones, Edward R: That you need you need the ot ap import a u Th in order to get your credentials recognized and you need the text to speech important in order to where we're going to do, which is changed text into.
Jones, Edward R: speech file, so I have a function here called text to wave, and the reason for that is we're going to take a text file and and we're going to produce a wav file w AV a wav file is a particular type of audio recording.
Jones, Edward R: This is old school stuff and the beginning there were there was wave, and it was good, and it was found mostly on windows machines.
Jones, Edward R: And then came was it quick time quick, whatever the MAC the MAC thing was a quick thing.
Jones, Edward R: Quick thing something, and it was good.
Jones, Edward R: And then came MP3 and it was better.
Jones, Edward R: Right, where it goes back a while, but let me unfortunately or fortunately.
Jones, Edward R: You don't have much of a choice here it's going to produce a wav file because it's it's looking for efficiency, this is a model file not stereo so this file is being encoded wave model mono channel one channel.
Jones, Edward R: APP what's called 1600 hertz which is not high quality, if you were doing music, you would record this is probably stereo MP3 at 48,000 hertz.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, but what do we invoice we don't need the have the recording done the way you would say do a violin concerto or something like that so we're going to produce a smaller file a wav file, which is like I say it's not stereo.
Jones, Edward R: So you can see the function here it's called text to wave and you look at their 1234 parameters that are coming into this function.
Jones, Edward R: One of the parameters is required, which is the first one, it says text input notice the other parameters have an equal equal sign to them.
Jones, Edward R: When you have a parameter, this is equal, that is, the default for that parameter, and also that parameter than is not required when you call that function.
Jones, Edward R: So the first parameter is required, the other three are optional if they are not given, then they assume the values that you see in the description of these these three this you see here, for example, type if you don't give a value there it's going to be file.
Jones, Edward R: The other value for type is string.
Jones, Edward R: The input here can be either a file name or just a string.
Jones, Edward R: Which is really cool.
Jones, Edward R: Because I other words I can take what you're typing and turn it into an audio recording a string or, if you have something that's been saved off, I can take that and put that into an audio recording.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: So the first input is text input that can be either a file name or just text string the next one is type the word type.
Jones, Edward R: Which by default is file so by default this thing expects a file it's coming in, but if you change the type to string, then it will look at that first term text input as a string instead of a filename.
Jones, Edward R: Language the default language of English right, but you can make that language, the the text would be in Spanish.
Jones, Edward R: French you know those are all possibilities Chinese is possible with the in Arabic is a possibility.
Jones, Edward R: And then your speech file, which is the last parameter there, this is the name of the wav file that is going to be created and by default will put the trends, the recording in a file called speech dash file dot wave and they will put that in the same directory as your code.
Jones, Edward R: So if you want that file to go somewhere else, with a different name, possibly you want to put speech file equal to, and then give it the industry as as a string the path, and then the file name, where that thing is going OK now you don't have to.
Jones, Edward R: give it a name and it's just going to go there and this speeds up, you can say temp that way of as a temporary let you know that this is just a temporary recording or something like that.
Jones, Edward R: let's go back and look at the code, then so in the very top of the code after you enter those things it looks at the word type it says, this is a type of file.
Jones, Edward R: If it is a file let's try to open it now look at this Python character, look at this Python structure here, this should be familiar to you.
Jones, Edward R: This structures is always used if you're going to do an operation that could crash the program put it in what's called a try except structure or box.
Jones, Edward R: So I you inside the code you put the code that might crash Why would it crash bad file name, you know you're you don't have privileges to write to that location.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, there are all sorts of reasons why writing a pilot and crash you don't want to you don't want to have it destroy your program your beautiful program just because they entered a bad.
Jones, Edward R: name for the vial so you you try to open it in good faith, but if it does crash, then it instead of giving you a route error message and executes the code in the accept block.
Jones, Edward R: So it says, except exception, as he exception is the error message, except put the error message in a variable called he.
Jones, Edward R: I may or may not want to read it.
Jones, Edward R: But i'm going to tell you right here, the first thing i'm going to do is i'm going to print out in the window unable to open and give it the name of the file chances are is misspelled.
Jones, Edward R: Now here we're here we're actually reading the file you'll see you at the top, it says.
Jones, Edward R: Read, this is a read statement so we're reading the file using the text name that was passed into this function and we're going to read the file and put the content, so that put the whatever's in the file, which is a string into a variable called contents.
Jones, Edward R: Now, this can crash if it crashes, we come down here, we say unable to open and we give it loops we give it the name of the file.
Jones, Edward R: And, and then i'm actually here, I decided I should go ahead and print the error message that's coming from Python and then the return just says get out of here.
Jones, Edward R: we're done this we're not gonna be able to do anything if I can't read that file return means get me out of this function go back to where it was.
Jones, Edward R: So that's if you have a file now if you if you also then having just bought her having open that file, I want to check the size of the file to see if it's greater than 5000 characters if it's greater than 5000 characters it's going to crash.
Jones, Edward R: The Google API does not allow you that that's the quota remember I said, their quotas on these things, one of the quotas.
Jones, Edward R: On the text to speech API is that if you're doing a local file, they can not have more than 5000 characters which actually is pretty small okay.
Jones, Edward R: So it's this thing is designed for small communications at the local level Now you can go to if they are if it is larger than 5000.
Jones, Edward R: There are ways that the you can use of cloud team to handle that So if you you check the check to see if the side, this is greater than 5000 if it is.
Jones, Edward R: Tell about talk about an error local file to large local text files are limited to no more than 5000 characters this file contains and then give it the number of characters that are actually in the file, so the book person knows oh.
Jones, Edward R: yeah 6000 okay I just take a few more you know day I will feel as or something like that, on the other hand, if it's 5 million well okay this, this is the wrong Program.
Jones, Edward R: And then, if you pass all of this, and so, by all of this, I mean we read the file and we check the con the size of the file, then we pass in the credentials.
Jones, Edward R: Then we pass on the credentials we're ready to ready, we got the we got the contents we're ready to start working on this, all right.
Jones, Edward R: You after you pass in the conventions you actually send the contents over to the text to speech API and the you just basically you see it says synthesis input is equal to all right synthesis is the jargon that's using this API to refer to the voice recording.
Jones, Edward R: So there's synthesizing and artificial voice recording well artificial voice in a recording so you'll see the word synthesis or synthetic.
Jones, Edward R: Is several places in the API that's just fancy word for recording the voice should computer generated recording all right, and then it says set the voice for the speech.
Jones, Edward R: Now this is way cool all right.
Jones, Edward R: They have maybe 100 different voices that you can use for each language, like the English language, there are probably there's probably for the English language I would guesstimate something like 20 or 30 voices.
Jones, Edward R: what's the difference well somebody from the north somebody from the South is the accent half of them are male half of our female.
Jones, Edward R: Some of the voices sound kind of young, some of them some kind of older, some of them sound excited and some of them, not so much so, you get to choose the voice here.
Jones, Edward R: which can influence power these recordings sounds not only can you can choose let's say the language so you can specify the language of the native language of the speaker Now this is funny.
Jones, Edward R: Because I can write a program here, where the native language, the speakers, Spanish and they're reading English.
Jones, Edward R: Okay yeah I did on it it's kind of weird.
Jones, Edward R: Are you going to have the native language is Chinese and they're going to read English and see how this goes right so it's kind of fun to play with.
Jones, Edward R: But that that is what you're doing here you're you're setting up the voice the native voice of the speaker, not the translation, not the language that's in the text file you're talking about the speaker here.
Jones, Edward R: And notice that I checked to see whether the the language is in the language keys is this language support it and if it's not I just say i'm supported language we're out of here.
Jones, Edward R: So we do, there are, if you look at the documentation on this API there must be 100 or more of these voices.
Jones, Edward R: and different languages and the main languages, you do see, but there are some obvious holes like Farsi, for example, is big Hall, but you do have Arabic and some other things, but I don't think navajos in there it's.
Jones, Edward R: And then you say Okay, the configuration of the the text to speech to speech to the audio configuration.
Jones, Edward R: The configuration of the output file and the one that seems to be accepted, mostly here is a w AV Mano 16,000 hertz and in order to get that you just use this code right here, and the phrase word linear 16 which refers to wave 16,000 hertz model.
Jones, Edward R: You can also use I think there's another term fly EU.
Jones, Edward R: And that'll do the same thing, and now you can produce MP3 files and other types of audio configuration.
Jones, Edward R: Hopefully you don't have to go there now, the reason I would discourage That is because of the other API that speech to text will only take a wav file.
Jones, Edward R: So he went versus if you have an MP3 file and now you want to go back to text, good luck, you need to convert that ap that MP3 to wav file before you do that.
Jones, Edward R: Okay uh and then, so this is describing the output file structure is a wav file and then this is the, this is the code.
Jones, Edward R: That does the lifting convert speech to text response is equal to client that synthesize speech all right, create this request synthetic voicera and the input is going to be synthesis input.
Jones, Edward R: We we did that, at the top very first line synthesis input, the voice oh yeah yeah that's right up here it's going to be a guy and this the English language speaking guy and.
Jones, Edward R: The audio is going to be wave.
Okay.
Jones, Edward R: So that produces the file and then the next set of code down here writes that file into the the location described by speech file if you don't include that in your entry it'll go to speech file wave in the same the local directory.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, and all right now, if you haven't done this yet run this file in spider.
Karen Fireman: Man, I had a problem I saw the fix them 43 that people said but it's still it needed this wave thing and I didn't maybe I didn't put it in the right place, I didn't know how to move the wav file, because when I tried to download and it just opened and and your voice came out.
Jones, Edward R: Okay well that's cool that.
Karen Fireman: is cool it was you, but.
Jones, Edward R: It doesn't sound okay.
Karen Fireman: it's not a great it was only a few.
Jones, Edward R: seconds, but I.
Karen Fireman: Save that file.
Jones, Edward R: If you look in the folder for week four it says lecture files, you should see these recordings.
Karen Fireman: I saw it, but when I tried to download it I didn't know how to do it.
Oh.
Jones, Edward R: You should just click on it, it comes down to your download folder.
Karen Fireman: It didn't when I clicked on it and open it and then talk to me.
Jones, Edward R: Oh well, this is the APP lets you save it.
Clay Coleman: Well yeah yeah there's three dots on the side you.
Clay Coleman: click on the three dots and it says download.
Karen Fireman: Oh, thank you, sorry.
Karen Fireman: Thank you for.
Jim Clark: The first time I tried to do, I had the same problem and, finally, I had to did.
Jones, Edward R: you hear me talking to him.
Jim Clark: Oh yes, right but.
Jim Clark: This is good, well download your data, but once you actually had to give it a pass name that you recognize it so we go right folder.
Jones, Edward R: i'm good.
Jim Clark: But with I ran the program and I could say I ran all the way to.
Jim Clark: detect Paul revere and there there's an there's a character problem so.
Jones, Edward R: Look, let me go through the test cases, the first test case should use a recording called sin.
Karen Fireman: it's wrong.
Karen Fireman: it's spelled hallo instead of Hello.
Jones, Edward R: yeah that's right, it should spell be spelled like that okay that's German.
Karen Fireman: Where are you putting Hello.
Jones, Edward R: Because i'll snow hang on hang on there are several recordings here.
Jones, Edward R: As some of the recordings are not an English.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, this particular recording.
Jones, Edward R: That you're seeing here.
Karen Fireman: I get it to stop.
Karen Fireman: What.
Karen Fireman: This one says still recording.
Jones, Edward R: it's still.
Jones, Edward R: Not a lot.
Jones, Edward R: This program should read that file sin dash alo that wave and the files should say hello, do you speak German.
Jones, Edward R: The word Hello in German is all.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, and I do speak German, some.
Jones, Edward R: So you would type, if you read that file, this is the way this is the way you would do it well actually no i'm sorry.
Jones, Edward R: This this first test case i'm sending a string hello, do you speak German, and the type here is string instead of file and then the output file is going to be it's going to be sent to audio sin underscore Oh, it was like a move to head.
Jones, Edward R: Right, there are loaded with.
Jones, Edward R: So that you'll see this should be the first test case and what you should only see in your output window, it says audio content written to file audio.
Jones, Edward R: What I did was I created a directory in my in the area where I have my Python code and that directory is called audio and so it's writing into the directory called audio and it's writing that's the name of the file it's going to write.
Jones, Edward R: And this, this is not me in the recording because this is being this is completely synthetic i'm sending it a string and then it's decoding that string that's an English speaker I think yeah it's an English speaker and.
Jones, Edward R: yeah, and so this should just come out hello, do you speak German and that's what you should hear in this file.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: The next test case is it's a similar thing except the Spanish I blow out, you know all our blessing lists and it's just another string and this one will come out into this recording you see here, and you can see that.
Jones, Edward R: And then, this is the case where you have a file, so this would be a text file.
Jones, Edward R: loaded text.
Jones, Edward R: And the language here is Spanish this text files, this is it has a Spanish text in it, and then the speech file will be sent to here.
Jones, Edward R: And Okay, so that is basically all there is to text to speech.
Jones, Edward R: At I haven't covered i've only covered the local small files.
Jones, Edward R: Small strings less than 2000 characters on the string or the file has to have less than 2000 characters now what would you do if you had a pilot say that it had a million character sign well the obvious easiest approach is to is to do chunks you know look for 2000 character chunks.
Jones, Edward R: record each one of those and then put them together.
Jones, Edward R: But for our purposes, this is the limit as far as i'm going through the documentation on how to make this.
Jones, Edward R: Larger how to handle larger cases or the text files larger I think my inclination we first to call Google to see if they can raise the quota if you don't like the quota.
Jones, Edward R: And then the our case the quote it says to no more than 2000 characters So if you want to do a larger files in 2000 characters the easiest thing to do is to call up Google and there is a number.
Jones, Edward R: If you look at the quote is there is a good information on the on the dashboard there's a phone number, you can call, and you can tell them they're going to want to know.
Jones, Edward R: Why are you doing this and blah blah blah, and then they can raise those photos on an individual case basis, so if you're let's say doing this.
Jones, Edward R: For court, you know judicial court and you wanted to be able to produce recordings for people that say that might be blind.
Jones, Edward R: So you have a witness coming in and they're blind and they can't read the text right, but you would like to have a unbiased synthetic recording of what that text is saying this is one way to do it, but you may want to lift the quota from 2000 characters to so you know, whatever the number.
Jones, Edward R: You actually need, and I think Google will be warm to that.
Jones, Edward R: Either they are, they are other approaches another approach would be to put the text on the Google cloud and to use different part of the API which is not documented, so they would give you that documentation.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Dr Jones.
Yes, ma'am.
Jones, Edward R: No ma'am who's talking.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: And this is Charles.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Before we move on on line 43 for the windows users.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, hang on, let me go back, let me back up, so I can see where we're talking here line 43 okay yeah right here, the open part right the sky.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Yes, Sir i'm right after the are.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Pretty narrow comma then encoding equals left quote you tf dash a right quote.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: will help eliminate a.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: character nap nap decoding error error.
Jones, Edward R: You get into encoding there so.
Jones, Edward R: Basically, right here.
Jones, Edward R: After this, you put a comma, and then you put in coding equal to, and then in quotes ut F dash a.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Yes, sir.
Jones, Edward R: yeah we've seen that before it's a weird thing because all text files 99% of for you to faith, so what you know it's kind of crazy.
Jones, Edward R: right but that's a good catch girls, so those of you that are in windows if you're given an error at line number 5043 approximately right in this area of the code right here after they are quote.
Jones, Edward R: Put a comma, and then the word encoding equals and then in quotes you T F dash eight uniform tango foxtrot dash eight okay.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: And and actually that plays Arabic identify defects.
Jones, Edward R: With clay.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Yes, sir.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, thanks Lee.
Jones, Edward R: All right.
Jones, Edward R: i'm so happy everybody calling on things like that this is great, and I need to change the code to obviously.
Jones, Edward R: Now there is another program and instead of local text to speech is called text to speech play.
Jones, Edward R: And that one you want to take a look at because what's in there is not only does it translate this to a wav file it reads the file as well.
Jones, Edward R: Now, in order to make that happen, you have to i'm using a special package for that there are lots of ways to read wav files in Python.
Jones, Edward R: The one that's supposed to talk about is I think it's called sound, something the one that's most talked about is obsolete that doesn't work for hasn't worked for the last year or two, so the one that i'm using is.
Jones, Edward R: Let me, let me get out of here and go over here to spider and.
Jones, Edward R: yeah if you go to text to speech or you go to text to speech play I think those two, by the way, are the same.
Jones, Edward R: programs you'll see there's an import statement here that's called simple audio as SA.
Jones, Edward R: So this is another package that you need to if you're going to play the audio part in your program you need to install simple audio and you can do that by just going pip install simple audio.
Jones, Edward R: That will install it restart the kernel and then you can use, you can run this program.
Jones, Edward R: text to speech or text to speech dash play, both of them, I think, do the same thing and it's actually going to read what it does convert for you real time, so let me run this on my computer I haven't done this before cross my fingers Okay, here we go.
Jones, Edward R: So the first to the play was activated.
Jones, Edward R: And so you heard you heard that voice that was a computer voice that was a male computer male.
Jones, Edward R: It could be English computer mail right So if you run run these programs, you will hear them that playing of.
Jones, Edward R: So the first speaker was an English speaking voice the second one was the Spanish speaking voice mail.
Jones, Edward R: Now you can go on the API and actually listen to these different voices and choose the voice that you want, if you look at this code, a little bit further down.
Jones, Edward R: let's see here, you see the languages are listed, this is a dictionary, so I have English, Spanish, German Chinese and Arabic, you can add to this.
Jones, Edward R: And then, what you see here in the is first of all, the sixth it was called a 630 is oh 639 code for the language, English is een dash us Spanish, yes, that she is German and so forth.
Jones, Edward R: And then over here, this is the name of the voice that's being used, so the English voice is Ian us this is a way of matt with net voice dash D, as in Delta.
Jones, Edward R: And if you look up the voice you'll see that this is supposed to be a male voice, and you can hear a little recording on the on the documentation for this, if you look go to the dashboard and you look at the documentation on text.
Jones, Edward R: To speech.
Jones, Edward R: By changing this information you change the voice, you can, for example, get it make it a female voice, you can change it to a lower voice or higher voice and so forth, and so on.
Jones, Edward R: This information comes up is used.
Jones, Edward R: let's see.
Jones, Edward R: down here.
Jones, Edward R: voice.
Jones, Edward R: You see, it says language zero that should that's the language code and then it says here s s ml gender text to speech.
Jones, Edward R: And it's giving you the name the name of the language here, this is also the voice actually and then this is the gender right here, so this is a defining the characteristics of the voice.
Jones, Edward R: And for me, listening to those voices they sound a whole lot better than a lot of people on TV, I can understand them pretty well.
Jones, Edward R: But you can check it, you know of course that was my I selected the voice based upon what I thought was understanding and I can understand them, but it's you may prefer a different voice.
Jones, Edward R: depending upon your audience or so forth, and so on.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so I thought that was pretty cool that you can actually generate voices after the speech file is is so developed.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, let me.
Jones, Edward R: move on ahead here and.
Jones, Edward R: Go to.
Jones, Edward R: The next one, which is speech to text.
Jones, Edward R: This is reversing we're going to reverse the coin so.
Karen Fireman: Does anybody know that one work what it did we get that one to work that I mean you went through that speech one like in about three seconds sorry to say, the other one you really went through it, I did we did we run it did it work.
Jones, Edward R: Did I get which.
Karen Fireman: We have a special folder or does it just have to be in the audio folder are.
Jones, Edward R: You, what are we talking about.
Karen Fireman: i'm asking you, Dr Jones on this file that you just said text to speech play um what folder does the does the stuff the input file have to be, and is.
Jones, Edward R: All the same.
Jones, Edward R: yeah Let me take, let me take a look at that again.
Karen Fireman: oops.
Jones, Edward R: Let me show you right down here at the bottom, these are the test cases that are being run right here.
Jones, Edward R: OK, now the first two test cases is just there is a string there's no file.
Jones, Edward R: First, the first string says hello, do you speak German, the next one says all buzzing glass right.
Jones, Edward R: And you see the language here be in Spanish, so the person who's speaking this is going to be a Spanish speaker.
Jones, Edward R: If I didn't have them they're going to have some English some English guy trying to say that doesn't sound good and then you have.
Jones, Edward R: The next one here, I have a file and, as you see it says text Hello text alo, these are all files that you can download, I think, from the.
Jones, Edward R: The week for folder now, if you would have to change this information if you put that file in the same directory is your code then you'd have to get rid of the texts slash.
Jones, Edward R: But what I did was I created a directory called texts, and then I put the files in there, and so, then that's why you see a path here that says Okay, looking at the texture agree and find this file called Hello text.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: And then there's one called Paul revere shorten text is.
Jones, Edward R: The Paul revere right listen my children the usual year there's been a write up call rear right, you know that one it's really cool phone anyway, is it's too long that.
Karen Fireman: It is very long that's the one that wouldn't stop going when when I accidentally pressed.
Jones, Edward R: yeah well, it turns out this thing is 2000 over 3000 characters so I shorten that So the first the first file shorten it should meet the quota.
Jones, Edward R: it's less than 2000 the second one is the phone and you should get an error message I just put that to basically put it there, to show you what happens if you try to read a file that's too large, it didn't work.
Jones, Edward R: So that yeah that's what's going on these test cases are just things that i've added to the.
Jones, Edward R: code at the bottom, to show you how to access the function, the function and to demonstrate what it does and so forth, and so on.
Jones, Edward R: But you can take any text file you want just send it send it through here just make us actually it's 5000 characters is the limit.
Jones, Edward R: 5000 characters on that file.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, let me go now to this one.
Jim Clark: i'm sorry Dr Jones, can I ask a quick question.
Jones, Edward R: Sure who's this this is.
Jim Clark: Just a gym chips.
Jones, Edward R: chips.
Jim Clark: So we're running the file, you were demonstrating was the text to speech underscore play Is that correct.
Jones, Edward R: The what was the gym.
Jim Clark: That the file, you are demonstrating was text to speech play and Python is that is that the correct farming.
Jones, Edward R: I was actually devon's using the running the program called text to speech, no play on it.
Jim Clark: Okay that's.
Jones, Edward R: I think those I think those two files are exactly the same.
Jim Clark: that the reason why I asked the question is i've tried to run it and I was getting messages saying that you need to import simple audio.
Jones, Edward R: As si yes, yes.
Jim Clark: And I tried pip install simple audio and I had error messages, so we can take that offline.
Jones, Edward R: But then cue that.
Jones, Edward R: yeah when I say you tried to install it did you go pip install.
Jim Clark: Yes, sir.
Jim Clark: Okay, so let's table that for tomorrow, but I wanted to let you know that that was something showed up so that's it.
Jones, Edward R: gives you directions run attorney those kind of just said pip install and you know it seemed to work fine simple audio one word.
Karen Fireman: Thank you, Kim did you restart your kernel.
Jim Clark: Now, no.
Jones, Edward R: You have to do.
Jim Clark: That let's let's go forward and i'll i'll check it.
Jones, Edward R: Okay speech to text.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, here we go.
So.
Jones, Edward R: If you click on the dashboard and you click on go to APIs here.
Jones, Edward R: You can you can either do that from the left hand side over here yeah api's or at the in the API box little bottom thing there.
Jones, Edward R: Then you click on library.
Jones, Edward R: And then we search speech to text.
Jones, Edward R: you've already seen this so now the top of the list is cloud speech to text API you want to click on that.
Jones, Edward R: And you want to enable.
Karen Fireman: One second Dr Jones.
Karen Fireman: wait till we catch up a little.
What.
Karen Fireman: Can we follow you in this can we can we catch up a little bit here.
Jones, Edward R: i'm sorry i'm having trouble hearing it here.
Karen Fireman: I was just hoping to catch up where you were struggling slide 64.
Karen Fireman: yeah I was just wondering if we were supposed to do what you were doing to go to the cloud speech to text were we supposed to do that.
Jones, Edward R: Now you don't have to do it right now.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, but yeah yes, you should you should do this if you're going to use your credentials.
Jones, Edward R: If you're using my credentials it doesn't matter that's already been installed.
Jones, Edward R: These installations, of the API nothing happens on your machine.
Karen Fireman: What if it says it's um it failed the action failed when you try to enable it.
Jones, Edward R: Probably has something to do with the building.
Jones, Edward R: Okay gotcha that's usually that's usual thing.
Jones, Edward R: But I don't know I you know I wouldn't have to see it, but right here, it was just what you should see you should see any enable button and, once it is is enabled, then you would see a manage button right here.
Jones, Edward R: and its meaning when you can disable it if you want.
Karen Fireman: Okay, thanks.
Jones, Edward R: yeah and, if you look, if you want to look at the documentation, you can click on documentation here.
Jones, Edward R: and actually what happens is it just takes you down to the bottom, that says tutorials and it says at the bottom, it says tutorials and documentation.
Jones, Edward R: So the real documentation is is to click on learn more, and when you click on that, then you get another list of things that you can look at.
Jones, Edward R: Doc or how to guides basic concepts and so forth.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, there are many applications and similar to what we were talking about earlier autonomous vehicles and.
Jones, Edward R: voice instructions and so forth.
Jones, Edward R: There are basically three different kinds, you can do local files local wave recordings.
Jones, Edward R: Once again they're going to restrict you if you're using a local file in the previous case we're reusing the local text file now we're using a local wave recording.
Jones, Edward R: This is restricted by Google to small recordings, which means something that's less than 1.5 megabytes so when you look at the wav recording if it's more than 1.5 megabytes, then you cannot treat it or you cannot use it as a local speech file.
Jones, Edward R: You have to go to option to larger wav files recordings larger than 1.5 will need to be stored in the cloud and then converted from the cloud.
Jones, Edward R: So that means that you basically upload the file into the cloud and then your program will access the recording from the cloud instead of accessing it from your hydro.
Jones, Edward R: In some ways, this is a good thing, because then you don't have to clutter up your hard drive with live large wav files.
Jones, Edward R: And the amount of storage that you have in the cloud is huge, because it's it's almost unlimited I think for free, they give you several gigabytes of storage, which is way more than we would normally use.
Jones, Edward R: And then there is a synchronous or real time streaming that you've been used as well, where you people are talking into a microphone and then that's being transmitted a converted to text file a text.
Jones, Edward R: document as they're talking.
Jones, Edward R: So you know, once again, you need to go pip install.
Jones, Edward R: minus minus upgrade Google cloud speech not speech to text you know the previous one, we had text to speech, remember that well whoever did this just said, Google cloud speech that's enough.
Jones, Edward R: And what you what happens is you actually get the Google cloud speech to text API installed, so you use the pip to make that make that happen.
Jones, Edward R: And then, once that's done you could just say from Google cloud Google cloud import speech, and this is important than the API that we use with the speech to text text conversions.
Jones, Edward R: Now, in the week for lecture files folder there is a Python file called speech to text.
Jones, Edward R: That P, why that file is the file i'd like to open in spider.
Jones, Edward R: And we're going to let take a look at that and run it and see how that works now i'm going to pause here, because if you haven't already done this, please do install.
Jones, Edward R: Before you open this file is in spider please install Google cloud speech and restart your kernel and otherwise it's not going to work right.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so we're in slide number 69, by the way, if you haven't seen that.
Jones, Edward R: This is the top of the file and so they function there's called wave to text.
Jones, Edward R: Instead of text to wave it says wave to text and we have 12345 parameters previous previously, we had four parameters and now we have five just like before the first parameter is required.
Jones, Edward R: And the other.
Jones, Edward R: The others are optional.
Jones, Edward R: Now it says speech file here.
Jones, Edward R: This is either the the name of a local file, which means a file on your computer or it's the name and address of a file in the cloud.
Jones, Edward R: And we'll talk about the local first so if it's on your computer the type here is local.
Jones, Edward R: That is the default type, so you don't need to specify type equals local.
Jones, Edward R: You if this file it's coming in, as on your computer wav file smaller than 1.5 megabytes, then you want to just read it off of your local computer, so the type here would be local.
Jones, Edward R: If the file is on the cloud the type is you are I uniform Romeo India, you are I and that's the jargon that cloud that Google uses to refer to store things that are stored on the crowd you ri is the address.
Jones, Edward R: The next one is the language that's being used in the recording.
Jones, Edward R: So this is language, English.
Jones, Edward R: The text file, this would be the name of the file, if you want this text file to be stored on your computer somewhere.
Jones, Edward R: This is the name that you would use to to have it stored on your computer.
Jones, Edward R: And then there's a time limit that you could set it defaults to 60 to 90 seconds, which for local files is way more than enough, but if you had a longer file on the cloud, you may have to bump that up to a number larger than 90.
Jones, Edward R: You have a little underneath here you have a little deck dictionary of languages, and this is identical to the dictionary that you saw for the text to wave.
Jones, Edward R: function.
Jones, Edward R: In the other code.
Karen Fireman: Dr Jones Karen I have a question i'm not following you your text to file a text file is none so it's saving it to nothing.
Jones, Edward R: Well, what happens in that case, so the default is the default says don't this function is not going to save that text file.
Jones, Edward R: But if you wanted to save it, you will change them to a name or to a path and then name, you know the reason for that is because this function actually returns, the file.
Jones, Edward R: So you could choose to have it return the file to you and then use it in some other way, for example, you may want to.
Jones, Edward R: Burning the file out as Chinese and then translate it before you say that all right.
Jones, Edward R: So you could just leave the text file here is none, and then the wave two texts function will return the translation, which will be in whatever languages that you set that up and then you can translate that file, or whatever you want to do manipulate that file in some way.
Jones, Edward R: So it's just gives you another option.
Jones, Edward R: you'll see down below here, then that is setting up your credentials, and this is exactly the same code that's been used all of the api's.
Jones, Edward R: load credentials from file, and this is basically a Shannon handshake with Google San yeah you can build me for this and Google saying oh Okay, you can use the API.
Jones, Edward R: that's what's going on there.
Jones, Edward R: Now speech file, as I mentioned, can be either recording or it can be recording that's been stored in the cloud, which would have a you are I address.
Jones, Edward R: The type can be local or you are I local is the default the language is the name of the language you just want the name of the language that's being used in the of the scope recording English is the default.
Jones, Edward R: And then there's this actually this is defaults to non which means do not save the file if you put anything else in there, it will save the trends translation into whatever text file, you name you give it.
Jones, Edward R: And then of course it defaults to 90 seconds maximum time for processing.
Jones, Edward R: You can change that.
Jones, Edward R: Alright, so if it's a local file what happens is it opens the file notice it's opening it is rb and and i'll take that comment that we had earlier.
Jones, Edward R: This might be, you know, in the earlier one you had a was a right or was it a read I forget it was a read, but you had to say encoding equals ut dash eight.
Jones, Edward R: Well, this is not a ut you don't say in code equals ut of that shade here, this is not a text file, this is a binary file and the encoding year is actually.
Jones, Edward R: One of the different names for it but it's going to be a wave and coding and i'm not sure whether you'd actually you know.
Jones, Edward R: Whoever found this problem and windows i'm not sure there's a problem here or not, and if there is one i'm not sure what the encoding would be.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Dr Jones there's no problem that runs just fine.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so that encoding thing was just with respect to reading a text file you to pay okay that sounds good i'm glad to confirm that no changes necessary.
Jones, Edward R: So this, then what we doing is we're trying to read this file and if we can't read it, there is an error message that's presented.
Jones, Edward R: After the file is red we determine how large, it is in megabytes so I take the length of the recording and divide by a million and I get the size and may, if the size of megabytes is zero that means it's an empty file we're out of here.
Jones, Edward R: If the size is greater than 1.5 megabytes.
Jones, Edward R: We can't do this as a local recording we're out of here.
Jones, Edward R: You need to put that file up in the cloud and us and you are I address if you have recording greater than 1.5, so this is actually checking for that.
Jones, Edward R: And if you pass all of that, then it says Okay, the audio is equal to whatever's in that recording.
Jones, Edward R: If the if the type is you ri.
Jones, Edward R: Then it says Okay, the audio is equal to the speech file in the cloud with that address your IP address.
Jones, Edward R: Otherwise, this is dumb there's an error here speech file is not local and it's not a URL file so.
Karen Fireman: What is the dresser is Karen where would it be if it's a your eye.
Jones, Edward R: On the cloud.
Karen Fireman: How do we find it.
Jones, Edward R: i'll show you that.
Karen Fireman: Okay yeah.
Jones, Edward R: yeah you have to go to your dashboard and look at storage and then the founder stories you'll find you'll find the cloud you'll find your buckets of stuff in there in the cloud okay.
Jones, Edward R: All right, so, then we try to process the speech we try here with this is a thing that can fail if they bad if the audio is not properly recorded as a wav file.
Jones, Edward R: A Mano channel wav file, this will fail and so that's why I have the right, except block here recording is not wave mono encoding failed.
Jones, Edward R: And the actual error message will give you more input into what it might have been, and one possibility is that it's an MP3 file MP3 files are not currently supported by this API.
Jones, Edward R: And then, here we finished the conversion with this statement said responses equal to operation dash result, there is a timeout limit.
Jones, Edward R: Now here's The other thing it's kind of funky.
Jones, Edward R: This API it actually produces the translation or the API the text in chunks chunks of about 5000 characters each approximately.
Jones, Edward R: And you have to read these chunks and put them together, so this part of the code, it says chunks equal to zero transcript is empty.
Jones, Edward R: And then it goes through a loop of grabbing the chunks and putting them together, so the transcript here you'll see.
Jones, Edward R: it's actually adding you see it says, Chris rate plus this this chunk and it's it goes through here, and each time through there, it takes a certain number of characters approximately 5000.
Jones, Edward R: brings the next 5000 in and as it to the transcript the next time and I don't know why they did it this way, but yes, this is the way it has to be done.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: When you see the code it's pretty simple but Okay, where did I get this documentation.
Jones, Edward R: Well, what can I say all right, I didn't write the code, that is, the API might have been different, but there are there must be a really good reason why they did this way, but it OK OK OK.
Jones, Edward R: They also give you something for confidence and it's the percentage of provenance they have in the transcription.
Jones, Edward R: So if you have a good recording the confidence will be high, if you have a noisy recording the confidence is going to be low whatever it is, you can look at the confidence numbers, the church what the computer thinks of your recording.
Jones, Edward R: So a good recording will be something that I did with a nice microphone with no noise in the background, I regard get a 98 or 97 probably sometimes not if i'm kind of slurring you know.
Jones, Edward R: Anyway, it returns, the transcript if the transcript was created, you see if the file is none it, it does not return it does not save it.
Jones, Edward R: If the file is something other than none, it tries to save the file right here, at any rate, it always returns, the transcripts That gives you an option to grab it as a return from this function.
Jones, Edward R: So here's a test case.
Jones, Edward R: translation is equal to wave two texts and here's a local recording Hello dot wave it's a local recording you probably already have this one somewhere might be called something different just put the name of the recording right here.
Jones, Edward R: And then you can run this test case and what you should see is waiting for audio conversion and it, this is by the way, not real fast waiting for audio conversion may take.
Jones, Edward R: I don't know i'm in it, in this case.
Jones, Edward R: And then, it says transcript hello, do we speaking, or do you speak English and notice the confidence 70% okay all right, so I think I made that recording and I was maybe not too good with us so say I think it was better than the 70, but I do want to give me a 70.
Jones, Edward R: here's another example get us burger dress.
Jones, Edward R: So yes, I did record the gettysburg address gettysburg dot wave.
Jones, Edward R: This will throw an error, because the actual gettysburg address is more than 1.5 megabytes.
Jones, Edward R: So when you go wave to text Ginsburg got wave you'll get an error message you see it says error recording 3.7 megabytes.
Jones, Edward R: Unable to convert local recordings greater than 1.5 megabytes so that's just basically reminding you, if you do give it a recording it's too big it doesn't crash your computer it just says hey this is too big.
Jones, Edward R: Now here's another example Allah.
Jones, Edward R: This is the Spanish recording.
Jones, Edward R: And so I may have actually tried this myself like Oh, you know comas family so something like that, but so here we're trying to put the transcript and all that text.
Jones, Edward R: So transcript Ola come with como the stars I don't think this so yeah that was, I think it may have recorded that myself and I got an this time okay.
Jones, Edward R: Maybe I speak Spanish, but other than English I don't know so.
Jones, Edward R: I know that's not true, but.
Jones, Edward R: Anyway, and so here's your homework assignment, you can see how this is going to work out all right, so you want to make this this gooey here and you've already you should already know.
Jones, Edward R: How to create this gooey without the functionality.
Jones, Edward R: So when you're working on a good, the first thing you work at is, let me get this thing running without any functionality and we get the buttons in the right place and so forth, and so on, so what do I have here.
Jones, Edward R: I have one frame this is the canvas and then, I have two frames are left brain and right brain, so this is the Left frame in the right frame.
Jones, Edward R: In the Left frame, I have an entry, I have a label right there English, I have an entry box, then I have two buttons that I have another label, so this would be row one column one row two.
Jones, Edward R: column one, this would be a row three column one this is row three column to actually two columns here, and then I have row for label column one.
Jones, Edward R: Then I have a text box and that text boxes row five columns one the column spam on the text box, though, because fan is to.
Jones, Edward R: This because it's covering both the speak button and the clear button, there are two columns here.
Jones, Edward R: So this text box because man is too, and I think the row span is one, but you can play with the road span to get it to be the right size.
Jones, Edward R: Now, you also have to play with the geometry there's you know within a link within the height, the number and the top of the gui definition that basically makes structures, this thing to be the right size.
Jones, Edward R: And then the right frame will be here, well, first, I have a label at the top.
Jones, Edward R: This is the Basically, this is the mainframe label.
Jones, Edward R: Short communication language, this is going on the mainframe column one column two.
Jones, Edward R: And then, this is on the right frame, I have a list box.
Jones, Edward R: And then the, there is the homework three I think in homework three, there is an example of a list box.
Jones, Edward R: Maybe not, I have to give you, if not i'll get you make sure you get one in the Q amp a tomorrow night we can talk about this, but.
Jones, Edward R: By the end of the Q amp a tomorrow night, you should be able to create this gooey now once it's created, then you have to add functionality to it right, so the entry box here, there is no functionality here there's no click.
Jones, Edward R: This button is the where where the action happens right here, when you click that button it's going to read whatever's in the entry box.
Jones, Edward R: And then translate it according to whatever is selected among these target languages, so in this case I selected Chinese and then, when I clicked on this little button it produces the translation in the writing and writing.
Jones, Edward R: Now, if you click on the clear button, it will clear this area, right here, and it also clears the entry box.
Jones, Edward R: So resets those two areas.
Jones, Edward R: If you click on the in these row lists here you're selecting the target language nothing really happens when you click on that.
Jones, Edward R: But when you click on the speech button it reads whatever you've clicked on it says what did you click on over here because he needs that's being used to decide what I should do within the entry box here what language Do I need to translate it into.
Jones, Edward R: let's see now this speech button right here, not only do you translate it and then paste it into this text box, you also convert it to speech, this is a text to speech and you play it.
Jones, Edward R: that's when it says speech not just translate if you've already done translate for this.
Jones, Edward R: The translate board is just producing the translation in the text box on the bottom, the reason it says speech is because it also expect that after you do the translation.
Jones, Edward R: you're going to have somebody speak the translation on the computer now this case, it would have to be it would need to be a Chinese voice speaking, whatever that says right there.
Jones, Edward R: If you check Spanish you're going to get a Spanish translation and then the on the computer, you will hear whatever use it as a speaker you'll hear a Spanish speaking person read that translation.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: We will talk more about this tomorrow night in the q&a if you have questions so you think about how you want to approach this, there is no template there is no one template for this are many.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, the homework three template is really close, you can take the homework three template and modify it a little bit.
Jones, Edward R: And pretty quickly come up with this this particular movie right here, I think the challenge might be the speak button getting the you know, the text to speech and then playing, that of the speaker.
Jones, Edward R: that's an extra step, but really if you take a look at the Apps that we went over tonight, the one that says text to speech play that one or just text to speech, the one that uses the.
Jones, Edward R: Simple audio I think it is.
Jones, Edward R: Those.
Jones, Edward R: Those are pretty much solid you know some you call those functions from the speak you click the speak book you first call the trick translate button function, and then you go the texts speech function that you saw in that other program and you got it so.
Jones, Edward R: It might be more challenging than the others in some respects, but not that bad Okay, we will talk tomorrow night at Q amp a any questions now.
Karis Jochen: I have a quick question.
Jones, Edward R: This is.
Karis Jochen: This is charisse.
Karis Jochen: are so on the homework, I just wanted to clarify Whenever someone types in English into the text box, then it automatically should translate in i'm underneath without having to click a button.
Jones, Edward R: Well, I, like the button better because sometimes you don't you want to misspell you miss about something or you want to change what your type so.
Karen Fireman: appreciate your comment i'm not sure I understand it, either when you're clicking the language is the language, doing everything and does it matter what language, the input was originally.
Jones, Edward R: know the the language on the right hand side is the is the you're taking the language that's coming in the language that's coming in, you know will we're going to make it.
Jones, Edward R: hang on something to happen here all right we're going to make it simple and the incoming language will.
Jones, Edward R: be English, in other words, what do you type in the entry box is going to be English.
Jones, Edward R: When you click on the language on the right hand side that's the target language so we're going to translate whatever's in the English to the target language.
Jones, Edward R: And then we're going to have somebody speak that trans translation using the target language.
Karen Fireman: gotcha and one other question is there a reason we can't use the click boxes, we did on the last program for the languages, why we have to do it in a different way.
Jones, Edward R: and
Swanson J, Charles Richard: So we can learn something new.
Jones, Edward R: out.
Jones, Edward R: There, there are two reasons there's two reasons for that.
Jones, Edward R: The person who ever said that Charles.
Karen Fireman: Charles did Thank you.
Jones, Edward R: chunky he's a genius.
Okay.
Jones, Edward R: yeah it's something else the list box turns out to be much cleaner and easier to it looks different in some respects.
Jones, Edward R: Sometimes you might want to prefer the other form the the radio buttons or the click buttons, so it is just something new that i'd like you to see because it's much easier, it is easier for this application to use it, then the year is the code is much smaller.
Jones, Edward R: When you use it.
Jones, Edward R: So I guess that that is the real reason why i'm suggesting useless box over there, and so the checkbox.
Jordan Gross: And Karen I would say, from a ux perspective, the generally accepted it experiences that you can select multiple checkboxes only singles for radio buttons so right now there's a lot of code that we've had to add that says uncheck everything else, every time something's clicked.
Jones, Edward R: That should.
Jones, Edward R: work by default that for you so it's a.
Jones, Edward R: Nice.
Karen Fireman: yeah that's not true he's calling it a list he didn't.
Jones, Edward R: Call it rated coda radio button in the list the same way.
Jordan Gross: They work, the same they still.
Jordan Gross: nicely me allow for single.
Karen Fireman: select yeah I gotcha I gotcha I see okay.
Jones, Edward R: hang on here wait a minute this box is by default and Python or universe or unit you're only allowed to check one it won't let you check more than one all.
Jordan Gross: The checkboxes for.
Jordan Gross: tck did appear I could select multiple they were either set to alternate.
Jones, Edward R: variables both of them, you can allow you can enable in both, though, and you can enable multiple clicks but in the in Python the default behavior on the list is you won.
Jones, Edward R: The you know, is by if you have to do so, you have to go write some extra code to get multiple.
Jones, Edward R: So it turns out to be pretty simple, for, if you do spend a single click.
Jones, Edward R: it's ugly if you got multiple.
Karen Fireman: lists or list box.
Jones, Edward R: list box young okay like and list list list list Li.
Jones, Edward R: Li St.
Jones, Edward R: The stupid mask hopefully we'll get rid of these soon okay.
Karis Jochen: i'm Dr Jones is charisse again i'm sorry I I didn't.
Karis Jochen: I didn't really get my question answered um so I type in English into the text box and then nothing happens until I press the speak button Is that correct.
Jones, Edward R: that's correct.
Karis Jochen: Okay, I just wanted to make sure that okay great Thank you.
Jones, Edward R: Clear.
Jones, Edward R: Jordan you good you look worried, the okay.
Jordan Gross: i'm Professor i'm always reading something about some different problem i'm having on another screen.
Jordan Gross: So.
Jones, Edward R: Hopefully, I was.
Jones, Edward R: Getting worried a sinner ignoring this.
Jones, Edward R: conversation okay that's all right.
Jones, Edward R: Oh, someone you know.
Jordan Gross: boxes in the chat as as you go Google combo boxes, make sure I.
Know yeah.
Jones, Edward R: yeah there are, this is a list box right it's to enter in Java, you have list boxes in javascript you have was boxes and they're very different.
Jones, Edward R: They behave differently.
Karen Fireman: To tea okay.
Jones, Edward R: What.
Karen Fireman: it's to enter TT can.
Karen Fireman: don't we have two versions of everything T cantor and TT K.
Jones, Edward R: yeah yeah there's there's tikkun.
Karen Fireman: What is it.
Jones, Edward R: The list box.
Jones, Edward R: Yes, it's a.
Jones, Edward R: tk.
Jones, Edward R: So what is that list box is a tk widget.
Jones, Edward R: The list boxes of tk which and the text boxes to tk which, which means make sure that grid statement is a separate statement not tacked on at the end.
Jones, Edward R: Right.
Jones, Edward R: By the way.
Jones, Edward R: i'll give you i'll show you some code, where the users, the list boxing see if you can't figure it out, you look take a look at that.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, Jim.
Jones, Edward R: Are we ready to close down this this room meeting or what.
Zuberi, Bilal Mustafa: Yes, thank you, Dr Jones really appreciate it because I notes are very good.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Yes, thank you.
Jim Clark: very much.
Jim Clark: So what so we take it off recording.
Jones, Edward R: Wait a minute we're going to take it off or you want me to stop the recording and we can talk.
Karen Fireman: A second Defense.
Jim Clark: I can be at the end and.
Jim Clark: I just something I was going to ask you about the didn't need to be recorded it nothing controversial just.
Jim Clark: cook yeah.
Jones, Edward R: Well, hang on a minute here let's, let me make a couple of one I forgot some news comments, please start thinking about your class project for this class.
Jones, Edward R: At this point, you've you've seen a lot enough to define a project around this idea of creating a gooey that somehow translates or produces a you know different speech or text files, you can see how that might work, maybe a simple version of your own simple version of alexa.
Jones, Edward R: So trick questions about what's for dinner tonight, or something like that.
Jones, Edward R: i'm not expecting you're going to clear your were hungry or i'm not expecting the capstone project i'm so i'm expecting something that might be, you know, a read that well, first of all originality and looking for originality and second the that is maybe comparable to to a homework problem.
Jones, Edward R: And, and you know.
Jones, Edward R: depending upon how many people are working on this, it can be pretty complicated or involved or not, if you're if you're working solo or just two people i'm not i'd like to see something that's creative, but you know i'm not expecting the really big involve.
Jones, Edward R: Project here Okay, this is just for this one class, so I want you to start talking about that, because in about two weeks i'm going to be asking for a discussion a proposed see, I would like to see some graphs around what you're proposing to do.
Jones, Edward R: And we could have a little conversation about that.
Jones, Edward R: And maybe talk about overlap if there's some projects that are that are overlapping and that sort of thing, and maybe some other things that you want my I want to do okay so as we were coming pretty close to the finishing the Google part.
Jones, Edward R: The API the Google API thing and the Google thing i'm also I want to talk a little bit about the Google options for.
Jones, Edward R: image analysis vision image analysis, because later on in tensorflow and curious we're going to talk about image recognition and how that's that's done and.
Jones, Edward R: it's nice to see that there is an API for that and Google so we'll be able to compare what we can do with Google to what we can do over here with tensorflow and charisse, and this is another option.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: And certainly there's also you know we didn't talk about this there that, in addition to the API you know the search engine.
Jones, Edward R: And the Google map thing you know the map thing Those are all in that in that area too, you can take your credentials and you can write a program that uses the.
Jones, Edward R: The Google map application to chart a course and I actually wrote a program wants to, we had a data competition, it was a data competition.
Jones, Edward R: And involved bicycle renting rental bicycle Rentals and we needed to know.
Jones, Edward R: If a person rents, a bicycle here point A and goes to Point B, what is the expected time for that route, what is the best route and what's the expected time.
Jones, Edward R: On the Google APP for for maps lets you do that, you can say i'm on a bicycle and i'm going from this point to that point, how long does it.
Jones, Edward R: And how long, should it take that actually they actually produce that information, so I can say I could look at each trip and say Okay, this should have taken 30 minutes and the guy was like three four hours, what happened.
Jones, Edward R: And why eliza three or four so you can you can look at your data by absorbing some of that information and that's that's just another APP it's that all the Google Apps that you're familiar with.
Jones, Edward R: The Google drive the Google map thing all of those are accessible via these api's and.
Jones, Edward R: So we'll we'll talk we're going to talk a little bit about that going forward and then and then we're going to transition from that into looking at drones and how you program drones and that might be kind of fun to see if we can come up with a voice.
Jones, Edward R: voice control drawing drone.
Jones, Edward R: said once you see oh that's program i'm not sure that the latency time on the computer is going to be fast enough to do that those drones through some of those drones are pretty quick but we'll see.
Jones, Edward R: Okay well that's it for tonight i'll see you tomorrow night, then it, what is it seven o'clock.
Jones, Edward R: yep okay.
Jones, Edward R: Seven right right here.
Karen Fireman: It is seven o'clock that's what we understand, do you know which which soon you'll be on Sir because we had a little trouble last week getting you.
Jones, Edward R: Though God, I know I know.
Jones, Edward R: i'm supposed to go the one that's that song my APP right.
Karen Fireman: Well there's a listing on the on the side bar of the.
Jones, Edward R: Eco yo yo yo yo that's for the students right.
Karen Fireman: Well it's for you, it says um I mean it's for all of us no.
Jones, Edward R: it's not somebody has to start the meeting right.
Karen Fireman: Well, I don't know that's where we go to to see what.
Jones, Edward R: To go to him yeah okay i'll ask Dr you'll get this straight.
Karen Fireman: If he gives you something different, you let us know right.
Jones, Edward R: Oh okay.
Jones, Edward R: All right.
Karen Fireman: yeah that was tricky um.
Jones, Edward R: um.
Karen Fireman: I think we could get like one freebie on the homework to work on the project or anything, do you.
Jones, Edward R: Oh you're negotiating, are you.
yeah.
Karen Fireman: I don't step into your Charles don't don't have any papers here, Charles.
Jones, Edward R: it's literally for negotiations okay.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, all right we're coming up to a point I think it's early March, where you're going to have two weeks off and during that week so i'll come up, though.
Karen Fireman: We don't have any time off.
Karen Fireman: me we don't have free.
Jones, Edward R: Well, actually you do because we're missing a class on March, the second.
Karen Fireman: that's true that would be our time to work on it okay.
Jones, Edward R: yeah that's right so.
Karen Fireman: Thank goodness we have the governor telling us when we have to vacation.
Jones, Edward R: yo well.
Jordan Gross: If you want to teach me more things on that day, though, Professor i'm here for it.
Jordan Gross: Because i'm all about Python.
Karen Fireman: You can do my homework that day.
Jordan Gross: And to.
Jordan Gross: personally.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, oh I love it Jordan.
Jordan Gross: you're allowed to have your free time do too I would never take.
Jordan Gross: That away from you.
Karis Jochen: For sure, and if you happen to have an extra class just for fun z's i'll be here.
Jones, Edward R: Though okay.
Karen Fireman: i'm with you on that i'm all game, I just wanted a little extra time to work on on the project, when I wasn't working on my homework, I totally agree, I love it.
Jones, Edward R: Okay okay.
Jim Clark: they're playing the go kart on.
Jones, Edward R: OK OK OK.
Jones, Edward R: OK cool it's good to us here all right.
Jones, Edward R: So kind of syndrome going around my wife has got it, I can tell you that.
Jones, Edward R: All right.
Jones, Edward R: Please let's let's stop sharing and shut it down, and I would love love to hear from you and i'll be i'll be there tomorrow night.
Zuberi, Bilal Mustafa: Okay.
bye bye.
Jordan Gross: Take care Professor.
Jordan.
Jim Clark: So, Dr Jones if you'll take the recording off it's something really quick.
Jim Clark: Okay, so recording lights on, but what I was going to tell you don't don't leave the Chair can can we see your.
Jim Clark: Can you see.